From:	Steve Kayatin [skayatin@allencountyohio.com]
Sent:	Wednesday, September 21, 2016 9:12 AM
To:	'Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov'
Cc:	'Beth Seibert'; 'ddegen@allencountyohio.com'
Subject:	RE: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Thanks for the help Elizabeth!

From: Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov [mailto:Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov]  
Sent: Tuesday, September 20, 2016 3:47 PM 
To: Steve Kayatin 
Subject: RE: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Steve,
Yes.

Elizabeth

 

From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, September 20, 2016 3:38 PM 
To: Wick, Elizabeth <Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov> 
Subject: RE: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Elizabeth
For areas the County does not own the storm system? County, by definition, would mean any public entity 
like Townships?
Steve

From: Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov [mailto:Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov]  
Sent: Tuesday, September 20, 2016 2:45 PM 
To: Steve Kayatin 
Subject: RE: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Steve,
Sorry for the delayed response.

The intent of the Order was to have the County identify areas where insufficient storm water 
drainage is causing I&I into the sanitary sewers. Although it is not clearly stated in the order, the 
intent was to have the County (where they own the collection system) implement a strategy to 
reduce flooding and decrease I&I from entering the sanitary sewers.  Where the County does not 
own the storm water collection system, they should identify the owner of the problem areas and 
notify or require that entity to implement a strategy to reduce the flooding and decrease I&I from 
entering the sanitary sewers.

Hope this helps to clarify our position.

Elizabeth A. Wick, P.E.
Environmental Engineer/Section Manager
Ohio EPA, Division of Surface Water
347 N. Dunbridge Road
Bowling Green, OH 43402

P 419.373.3002
F 419.352.8468

Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov

 

From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Thursday, September 01, 2016 9:05 AM 
To: Wick, Elizabeth <Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov> 
Subject: FW: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Elizabeth
Do you have a recommendation on compliance with B. ii) of the orders for reporting to OEPA? Do we 
report to OEPA where and when flooding occured, or do we just notify the proper ms4 and document in-
house, or both?

 

Thanks
Steve
From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Friday, August 05, 2016 10:59 AM 
To: 'Lynette.Hablitzel@epa.ohio.gov'; 'Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov' 
Cc: 'Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov'; 'Brad Niemeyer'; 'Peggy.Christie@epa.ohio.gov' 
Subject: RE: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Thanks Lynette!
I still have a couple questions that needs addressed, and I guess this is more for Elizabeth:
1) What is expected of my office to comply with B. ii) of the orders, and
2)Does the MS4 have responsibility to comply with all State and Federal rules and laws under their permit, 
specifically the CWA? For example, lack of the MS4's drainage system causing backups and SSO's of the 
sanitary sewer system?
Thanks 

From: Lynette.Hablitzel@epa.ohio.gov [mailto:Lynette.Hablitzel@epa.ohio.gov]  
Sent: Friday, August 05, 2016 8:35 AM 
To: Steve Kayatin; Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov 
Cc: Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov; 'Brad Niemeyer'; Peggy.Christie@epa.ohio.gov; 
'beth@allenswcd.com'; harry.kallipolitis@epa.ohio.gov; Jason.Fyffe@epa.ohio.gov 
Subject: RE: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Hi Steve,

The modified FFO’s for Shawnee II were issued to the Allen County Commissioners.  The findings also state 
the WWTP and collection system are owned and operated by the commissioners.  Where storm water 
improvements are needed to address the I/I problems to the sanitary sewer and the WWTP, these 
improvements may be under the jurisdiction of Allen County. The NPDES Small MS4 general permit may 
influence how these improvements are conducted (eg. sediment and erosion control requirements, as well 
as possibly effecting the selection and sizing of a post construction BMP as per the NPDES Construction 
General Permit) and the review process ( require the development and review of a Storm Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan , SWP3), but the driving documents to conduct the improvements are the WWTP’s NPDES 
permit and the FFOs, not the NPDES Small MS4 general permit. There may be some areas (eg. township 
facilities) where Allen County does not have direct authority over the storm sewer system. In those cases, 
we encourage Allen County to work together with other storm water authorities and adjacent property 
owners to implement storm water BMPs. If the jurisdictional parties can’t reach an agreement, it remains 
Allen County’s responsibility to pursue any necessary improvements to the sanitary sewer to address I/I.

I hope this answers your question. If not,  please feel free to contact Peggy Christie or me.


Sincerely,


Lynette M. Hablitzel, P.E.
Storm Water Coordinator
Division of Surface Water
Ohio EPA
Northwest District Office
347 North Dunbridge Road
Bowling Green, Ohio 43402
(419)373-3009
lynette.hablitzel@epa.ohio.gov






From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, August 02, 2016 8:41 AM 
To: Wick, Elizabeth <Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov> 
Cc: Poffenbarger, Thomas <Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov>; 'Brad Niemeyer' 
<bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com>; Hablitzel, Lynette <Lynette.Hablitzel@epa.ohio.gov> 
Subject: RE: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Elizabeth
Also, the following is taken out of the Revised DFFOs (specifically B. ii.):
 

The following was the fifth bullet of the letter referred to in my previous email:
 

I need some direction on what is expected from us for compliance. A policy and procedure needs to be 
added to our MOM, but I am not sure to the detail that as needed for compliance. These two seem to 
crossover between your side and Lynette's side of the agency. I am working with Douglass Degan and Beth 
Seibert reviewing their storm water regulations and trying to determine if these issues play a role in the 
County's regulations. I would appreciate any direction you can give me.
Thanks
Steve

From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Monday, August 01, 2016 2:36 PM 
To: elizabeth.wick@epa.ohio.gov 
Cc: Tom Poffenbarger (tom.poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov); 'Brad Niemeyer' 
Subject: Emailing - EPA Response to Revised Extension Request 10-2-12.pdf

Elizabeth
See attached. The fourth bullet I believe covers the last item for 
modifying our MOM that we discussed today on the phone. I am a little 
lost to what is expected from us to comply with fourth bullet. Are we to 
put money into improving drainage, or notify ms4's of the drainage 
issues in our sewer district areas explaining to the ms4's the problem it 
is creating for us? I am going to continue looking for documentation 
that may give more detail to the fourth bullet.
Steve
