From:	Steve Kayatin [skayatin@allencountyohio.com]
Sent:	Wednesday, July 29, 2015 12:25 PM
To:	'Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov'
Cc:	'Brad Niemeyer'; 'Bill Horvath'
Subject:	RE: Revised Orders-Extension

Tom
Perfect, that is what we were hoping. We do have detailed process for addressing I/I issues 
from the private side, and we will outline the detailed process in the MOM. I will send you a 
copy of the updated draft MOM once we have addressed both requirements. Thanks for the 
help.
Steve

From: Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov [mailto:Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov]  
Sent: Wednesday, July 29, 2015 8:55 AM 
To: Steve Kayatin 
Cc: Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov; Peggy.Christie@epa.ohio.gov 
Subject: RE: Revised Orders-Extension

Steve, 
You do not have to develop the service lateral replacement reimbursement program or spend 
public dollars for private repairs. To satisfy the requirement in the order, you will need to 
outline how the County will address private lateral I&I. Once the I&I problems are identified, 
what will happen next? Would the County contact the home owner and require them to make 
repairs to eliminate I&I, etc…

Please let me know if you have questions.
-Tom

From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Wednesday, July 29, 2015 8:40 AM 
To: Poffenbarger, Thomas 
Subject: RE: Revised Orders-Extension

Tom
the original letter from OEPA on page 2 stated the following:
 
for the private I/I remediation. I know in our response we stated service lateral replacement 
reimbursement program would be developed. However, is OEPA expecting to budget money 
for this type of program? We feel department money spent on the public side of the I/I is better 
well spent. I guess I am asking for a modification to the June 10, 2013 letter from Brad 
addressing the strategy from a standpoint that doesn't involve public dollars to private repairs. 
I feel our Department Regs prohibits the discharge of excessive stormwater into the sanitary 
sewres and giving money to that cause just doesn't seem correct for the customers who are not 
creating the problem. We may need to have a phone conversation to discuss in further detail.
Steve

From: Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov [mailto:Thomas.Poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov]  
Sent: Wednesday, July 29, 2015 7:56 AM 
To: skayatin@allencountyohio.com 
Cc: Peggy.Christie@epa.ohio.gov; Elizabeth.Wick@epa.ohio.gov 
Subject: RE: Revised Orders-Extension

Steve, 
I think that the intent of the Strategy Plan in section (i) was to develop a plan to address I&I on the 
private system. The purchase the new camera truck is definitely a good first step toward identifying 
the laterals that have I&I. You would also need to incorporate a component to address the I&I. Your 
initial letter (Attached), which we considered acceptable,  indicated:

The Allen County Sanitary Engineering Department’s MOM manual shall be updated and 
revised to include strategies for detecting and remediating excessive I & I from private 
property service laterals.  Part of the department’s strategy is to develop a service lateral 
replacement reimbursement program promoting property owner repair of leaking service 
laterals.  The program budget will be established annually through the department’s budget 
process.  

The intent of section (ii) as you outlined it below seems acceptable. It would likely involve notification 
to the MS4 or political subdivision to address the storm water infrastructure improvements necessary 
to alleviate the flooding causing excessive I & I of storm water into the sanitary sewers.

Please let me know if you have any additional questions. 
-Tom

Thomas Poffenbarger, P.E.
Water Quality Engineer II/Unit Supervisor
Ohio EPA, Northwest District Office
Division of Surface Water
347 N. Dunbridge Road
Bowling Green, Ohio 43402

thomas.poffenbarger@epa.ohio.gov

Phone: 419-373-3000
Fax: 419-352-8468

 




From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, July 28, 2015 9:30 AM 
To: Wick, Elizabeth; Poffenbarger, Thomas 
Subject: Revised Orders-Extension

Elizabeth & Tom

The following in Section B was added to the revised Orders to allow for 5-year extension of the 
compliance schedule. We are needing a little more detailed insight to what is expected for 
compliance to these additions or verification of the following for compliance:

For item (i). - will the purchase of our newer camera truck with the ability to launch a lateral 
inspection unit to investigate all of the drainage sub-basins for evaluation of private laterals be 
sufficient for compliance to (i.)? We have been meeting regularly with staff for I/I Remediation 
Program Updates to the investigations of the drainage basins. I have attached the most recent 
monthly update. Wasn't sure if this is what was expected for compliance to (i.). The 
investigation of the private laterals, I/I Remediation Program Updates and action items would 
also be added into the MOM.

For item (ii.) - I am assuming we need to add into our MOM the procedure for field staff 
identifying flooding areas where we have sanitary sewer being used as the drainage. The 
procedure would include staff training, documentation of the areas and actions to be taken to 
stop the situation. Would this include notifying the appropriate MS4 of the problem as the 
action to be taken?

 

Please give me a call to discuss when you have a moment.

Steve
