Individual Contractor Report
(Duplicate as necessary for each prime contractor)

Contractor Name	Beaverdam Contracting, Inc.	DUNS Number	013576975
Contract Name	American Bath Sanitary Trunk Sewer Project
Funding Recipient	Allen County
Project Name	American Bath Sanitary Trunk Sewer Project	Loan Number	CS392900-01

Number of Jobs Created or Retained this Quarter, in FTEs	18	Total Payroll of Job Hours Created or Retained this Quarter ($)	$79,377.14
Description of the Employment Impact for the Project	Wastewater Utility Construction Full-time construction positions

Number of Jobs Created or Retained this Quarter in FTEs and Total Payroll
Enter the number of jobs expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs) that were created or retained in the United States, the District of Columbia, Commonwealths, Territories and outlying islands in this calendar quarter, for your contract, as well as the payroll for those jobs.  This information is to be reported for both your workforce as well as the workforces of all of your subcontractors.

How to calculate quarterly FTEs:
The requirement for reporting jobs as FTEs is a common method for quantifying work in common units to account for part-time and full-time employees.  The basic calculation is the total number of hours worked divided by the employer's standard full-time number of hours for the reporting period.  Two part-time workers who each work 1040 hours in a year would work a combined 2080 hours.  If the standard full-time work schedule for one year is 2080 hours, the total FTEs of those two part-time workers would be 1 (formula: (1040x2)/2080=1).

To report on quarterly FTEs for ARRA, the total labor hours for jobs created or retained will need to be summed for the reporting quarter and divided by the standard number of hours for a full-time schedule in the quarter.  The result will be the reportable number of FTEs.  If only an annual standard number of hours for a full-time schedule are available, that number will need to be divided by 4 in order to obtain full-time hours for just one quarter.

The following are examples of FTE calculations:
-If 1 employee worked a full-time schedule of 500 hours in a quarter, the formula would be 500/500 = 1
-If 2 employees worked a full-time schedule of 500 hours in a quarter, the formula would be (500x2)/500 = 2
-If 1 employee worked a full-time schedule of 500 hours and 1 employee worked a part-time schedule of 250 hours in a quarter, the formula would be (500+250)/500=1.5
-If 2 employees worked a full-time schedule of 500 hours and 2 employees worked a part-time schedule of 250 hours in a quarter, the formula would be ((500x2)+(250x2))/500=3

It is important to remember that the calculations will solely be based on the hours worked in one quarter.  Therefore, the FTE calculation must be based on total labor hours in the quarter divided by total labor hours for a full-time schedule only for the quarter. Please note the difference between quarterly FTEs and annual FTEs:  1 Quarterly FTE = 0.25 Annual FTE; 4 Quarterly FTEs = 1 Annual FTE.

Employment Impact Description
Provide a narrative description of the employment impact of work done by created/retained jobs.  This narrative should be cumulative to date for your contract and must be updated for each calendar quarter and at a minimum, address the impact on your workforce, and the impact on the workforces of your subcontractors.  At a minimum a brief description of the types of jobs created and retained in the United States and outlying areas should be entered each calendar quarter. This can be reported in terms of broad labor categories, such as "Wastewater Utility Construction."
