Individual Contractor Report
(Duplicate as necessary for each prime contractor, engineering contractor, and local agency (if agency employees worked on the project and were paid with Project funds).

Total Hours Worked and Funded by this Project during this Reporting Period	0	Total Number of Jobs Funded by this Project during this Reporting Period, in FTEs	0
Total Payroll Dollars Funded by this Project during This Reporting Period
No work performed on this project during the quarter.

Total Number of Jobs Funded by this Project during this Reporting Period, in FTEs
Enter the number of jobs expressed as full-time equivalents (FTEs) that worked and were funded in the United States, the District of Columbia, Commonwealths, Territories and outlying islands in this calendar quarter, for your contract, as well as the payroll for those jobs [total payroll of job hours is not required for drinking water projects].  This information is to be reported for both your workforce as well as the workforces of all of your subcontractors.

The requirement for reporting estimates of the “Number of Jobs” is based on a simple calculation used to avoid overstating the number of other than full-time permanent jobs. This calculation converts part-time or temporary jobs into fractional “full-time equivalent” (FTE) jobs.

In order to perform the calculation, a recipient will need the total number of hours worked by employees in the most recent quarter. Report all job hours funded for this project.

Please show calculation below:  Note:  If you need more room, please add another page for your calculations.

Employment Impact Description

Provide a narrative description of the employment impact of jobs funded by this project.  This narrative should be cumulative to date for your contract and must be updated for each calendar quarter and at a minimum, address the impact on your workforce, and the impact on the workforces of your subcontractors.  At a minimum a brief description of the types of jobs funded by this project in the United States and outlying areas should be entered each calendar quarter. This can be reported in terms of broad labor categories, such as "Wastewaterr Utility Construction."
