ADVERTISEMENT FOR BIDS

The Allen County Sanitary Engineering Department will receive sealed bids for three contracts to be awarded separately:

Contract A: Ottawa River Force Main Project

The Project shall include the furnishing and installation of all materials, equipment, labor, and incidentals required for the installation of a sanitary sewer force main which includes approximately 8,932 L.F. of 20-inch pipe, including air/vacuum release manholes and related surface restorations for the construction in accordance with the Contract Documents. Bids will be on a unit price basis.

Contract B: Shawnee II WWTP Improvements – Rebid

The project shall include improvements to an existing 2 MGD municipal wastewater treatment plant including a new 48” influent sewer, headworks building with screening and compaction, chemical feed, and influent pumping; a 1.2 million gallon concrete flow equalization basin with mixing system and accessories; a UV and post aeration building with flow monitoring, UV modules, rotary blowers, and diffusers; a non-potable water system; a 3,200 square foot operations building; electrical building, site work including demolition, dewatering, grading, buried utilities, fencing and gates, asphalt paving, and related improvements; SCADA system including instrumentation and control panels; generator and all related electrical improvements, plumbing systems, and HVAC systems. Bids will be on a single prime lump sum basis.

Contract C: Fort Amanda Pump Station Project

The project shall include construction of a new wastewater pump station including, but not limited to: two-tier building with process area, restroom, and electrical room; five self-priming pumps; odor control; flow meter; site work including paving, grading, buried piping, and fencing; instrumentation including control panels, analytical instruments, and SCADA programming; electrical work including generator; plumbing systems; and HVAC sytems. Bids will be on a single prime lump sum basis.

Bidding Documents may be examined at the following locations:

Engineer’s Office:  URS, 277 W. Nationwide Blvd., Columbus, OH 43215, (614) 464-4500.

Builders' Exchange & Dodge Plan Rooms:

    						1175 Dublin Road, Columbus, OH 43215
						2077 Embury Park Rd. Dayton, OH 45414
						5555 Airport Hwy., Suite 140, Toledo, OH 43615

The Owner’s Office:  Allen County Sanitary Engineer’s Office, 3230 N. Cole St., Lima, OH  45801, (419) 996-4670.

Bidding documents may be obtained from ARC of Columbus, 1159 Dublin Road, Columbus, OH  43215, (614) 224-5149, at a non-refundable cost of production.  Bidding documents and Planholders List may be viewed on-line at www.atlasblueprint.com by clicking on “Order from PlanWell”, then “Public Planroom”.
Bids shall be either hand-delivered in sealed envelopes or mailed to the Allen County Sanitary Engineer’s Office, 3230 N. Cole St., Lima, OH  45801, on Monday, April 7, 2014 by 1:30 P.M. current local time for Contract A and by 2:00 P.M. current local time for Contract B and by 2:30 P.M. for Contract C. Bids received after this time will not be accepted.

The Bids will be publicly opened immediately thereafter and read aloud.

Each bidder is required to furnish with its proposal, a Bid Guaranty and Contract Bond in accordance with Section 153.54 of the Ohio Revised Code.  Bid security furnished in Bond form, shall be issued by a Surety Company or Corporation licensed in the State of Ohio to provide said surety.

Each Proposal must contain the full name of the party or parties submitting the proposal and all persons interested therein.  Each bidder must submit evidence of its experiences on projects of similar size and complexity.

Bidders must comply with the prevailing wage rates on Public Improvements in Allen County as determined by the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services, Wage and Hour Division, (614) 644-2239.

No proposal will be entertained unless made on the blanks attached to the bound documents furnished by the Board of Allen County Commissioners and designated for taking bids for this Project.

The bidder’s attention is called to the necessity of starting the work at once upon receipt of the written Notice to Proceed.

No bidder shall be permitted to withdraw his bid for a period of sixty (60) days after the time of opening bids.

Should any bid be rejected, the accompanying bid bond, or check, will be returned to the bidder forthwith and should any bid be accepted, the check, or bid bond will be returned upon the proper execution and securing of the contract.

The right is reserved, by the Board of Allen County Commissioners, to reject any or all bids.

Publish Dates in Lima News:   March 14 and 21, 2014

ALWAYS USE THIS DOCUMENT IF A PUBLIC JOB. THE ADVERTISEMENT IS THE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY. USE IT AS A SUGGESTED GUIDE. EDIT, SUBMIT AND REQUEST APPROVAL. COORDINATE WITH SECTION 00102, INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS. WHERE [BRACKETS] OCCUR, MAKE A CHOICE.
