SECTION 00808

SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS
    PART 1  GENERAL
        1.1 GENERAL
            A. These Supplementary Conditions shall modify and supplement the Standard General Conditions of the Construct Contract (Section 00700 - EJCDC C-700 2007 Edition), and shall govern whenever they conflict. All provisions which are not so amended or supplemented remain in full force and effect.  The Standard General Conditions of the Construction Contract are reproduced herein with no changes.
        1.2 MODIFICATIONS TO ARTICLES OF THE GENERAL CONDITIONS
            A. ARTICLE 1 – DEFINITIONS
                1. Paragraph 1.01.A.19 is supplemented with the following: Where the term "Engineer" is used in the Specification for the approval of materials or work, it shall be understood to mean URS.
                2. Paragraph 1.01.A.29 is supplemented with the following: Whenever the term "Owner" is used in the Contract Documents, it shall refer to Allen County, or its authorized representative.
            B. ARTICLE 2 – PRELIMINARY MATTERS
                1. Paragraph 2.02 – Copies of Documents, will be as stated in Division 01 Section “Summary”.
                2. Paragraph 2.03 – Commencement of Contract Time: Notice to Proceed is amended as follows:
		Delete the last sentence.
            C. ARTICLE 3 – CONTRACT DOCUMENTS: INTENT, AMENDING, REUSE
                1. Paragraph 3.03.A.1 – Add the following after the last sentence:
	“By executing the contract, the Contractor also represents and affirms that the Contractor is familiar with federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations that may in any manner affect cost, progress, or performance of the work.”
                2. Paragraph 3.03.B.1.c – Add the following paragraphs:
“c.		If any portion of the Contract Documents conflicts with any other portion, the various documents comprising the Contract Documents govern in the following order of precedence: the Agreement; Supplementary Conditions (including Division 1 documents): these General Conditions; the Specifications; and the Drawings. As between detailed drawings and general drawings, the detailed drawings govern. As between noted materials and graphic indications of materials, the noted materials govern.
 d.		Should the Contract Documents disagree as to quality or quantity of work required, the Contractor must provide the better quality or greater quantity unless the Owner gives written instructions to the contrary.
 e.		Where the drawings show only a portion of the work in full detail and the remainder is shown only in outline, the Contractor must execute the portions in outline as required for like portions shown in full detail. Where items are shown in diagrammatic/schematic drawings, the Contractor must verify location with the Construction Manager or as instructed by the Construction Manager before installation.”
                3. Paragraph 3.04.A – Replace with the following:
“A. 	The Contract Documents may be amended to provide for additions, deletions, and revisions in the Work which affect the price of the work or contract times, or to modify the terms and conditions thereof, by either a written Change Order or a written Work Change Directive signed by the Owner or its authorized representative(s).”
            D. ARTICLE 4 – AVAILABILITY OF LANDS: PHYSICAL CONDITIONS: REFERENCE POINTS
                1. Paragraph 4.01.B – Delete paragraph in its entirety and insert the following:
“B.  	Upon reasonable request, Owner shall furnish Contractor with a current Notice of Commencement.”
                2. Paragraph 4.02 – Subsurface and Physical Conditions is supplemented with: In the preparation of Drawings and Specifications the ENGINEER has relied upon those indicated in Division 00 Section “Geotechnical Data”.
                3. Paragraph 4.03.A.4 – Delete paragraph in its entirety and insert the following in its place:
“4.	…is of an unusual nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally recognized as inherent in work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents;
Then Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and in no event later than seventy-two (72) hours after first discovering that condition, and before further disturbing the subsurface or physical conditions or performing any work in connection therewith (except in an emergency as required by paragraph 6.16.A), notify Owner and Engineer in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not further disturb such condition or perform any work in connection therewith (except as aforesaid) until receipt of written order to do so. In the event the condition is continuing, Contractor shall send additional or subsequent notices at intervals of not less than twenty-one (21) consecutive days until the condition ceases or abates. Failure to provide such notices or avoid further disturbance shall constitute a waiver by Contractor of his right to seek adjustment of the contract times or contract price as a result of such condition.”
                4. Paragraph 4.03.C.1.c – Add the following paragraph:
“c.	Contractor has provided written notice to the Owner of the condition as required by Paragraph 4.03.A.4.”
                5. Paragraph 4.03.C.1.d – Add the following paragraph:
“d.	Engineer recommends to the Owner that the requested adjustment to the contract price or contract times is equitable.”
                6. Paragraph 4.03.C.3 – Add the following language at the end of this paragraph:  “In the event a claim is filed, the Contractor will not be relieved of the obligation to continue work during the resolution of the claim.”
                7. Paragraph 4.05.A – Add the following paragraph to the end:
“The Contractor shall notify the Owner forty-eight (48) hours in advance for the establishment of the base lines, benchmarks, or layout work.
                8. Paragraph 4.06 – Add the following subparagraph 4.06.A.1:
USE BELOW . IF NO HAZATRDOUS CONDITIONS ARE KNOWN.
1.	Delete Paragraphs 4.06.A and 4.06.B in their entirety and insert the following:
      a.    No reports or Drawings related to hazardous Environmental Conditions at site
		are know to the Owner.
                                b.     Not used.
            E. ARTICLE 5 – BONDS AND INSURANCE
                1. Paragraph 5.01.A – Amend the second sentence to read:  “…These bonds shall remain in effect not less than one year after the date when final payment becomes due or until completion of the correction period specified in Paragraph 13.07, whichever is later, except as provided otherwise by Laws or Regulations or by the Contract Documents…”
                2. Paragraph 5.01.C – Modify to provide for thirty days to provide substitute bonding and surety. Also, at the end of this paragraph, add the following:  “…and both of which shall provide coverage security for the interim during which the bond has lapsed.”
                3. Paragraph 5.01.D – Add the following paragraph:
“D.	If the Contractor provided a certified or cashier’s check or letter of credit as Bid Security, he shall furnish a Performance Bond in an amount at least equal to 100% of the Contract Price as security for the faithful performance of this agreement.”
                4. Paragraph 5.01.F – Add the following paragraph:
“F.	Each of the Bonds shall be on the forms attached to the Contract Documents, or substantially equivalent forms, and shall have a Surety thereon. Such Surety company or companies as are approved by the Owner and in accordance with Paragraph 5.01. Each of the Bonds shall be submitted in accordance with Paragraph 2.01.”
                5. Paragraph 5.02.B and 5.02.C – Add the following paragraphs following 5.02.A:
“B.	All insurance must be placed with companies with an AM Best’s rating of at least:
	A-VII and be acceptable to Owner; Owner’s acceptance will not be unreasonably
	withheld.

   C.  All surety and bonds provided must be executed by a surety or surety’s license to
  conduct business in the State of Ohio and named in the current list of “Companies
  Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable Securities on Federal Bonds and as
  Acceptable Insurance Companies” as published in Circular 570 (amended) by the
  Audit Staff Bureau of Accounts, U.S. Treasury Department.”
                6. Paragraph 5.04.C – Add the following new paragraph immediately after 5.04.B:
"C.	The Contractor shall, at his own expense, purchase and maintain the following
	minimum coverage:
1.	Workers Compensation, for claims for bodily injury, sickness,
disease or death as follows:
a.	Coverage A	  Statutory Benefits as described by the applicable law.
b.	Coverage B	  Employer’s Liability:
$500,000 Bodily Injury by Accident - each employee
$500,000 Bodily Injury by disease - each employee
$500,000 Bodily Injury by disease - policy limit
For Ohio projects, the Contractor shall provide a copy of a certificate of premium payment from the Industrial Commission and Bureau of Workers Compensation, State of Ohio, for the period of time specified during which construction commences and copies of renewal certificates for subsequent periods, so long as the project continues. For work outside the State of Ohio, a Workers Compensation and Employer's Liability policy shall be certified. In this instance, a 60-day notice of cancellation or material change shall be provided to the Owner and Engineer.
SPEC WRITER:  CONFIRM LIMITS WITH OWNER.
    2.	Comprehensive General Liability Coverage for Bodily Injury and Property
Damage - occurrence form.

General Aggregate	$2,000,000	Each occurrence, combined single limit for Bodily Injury and Property Damage
Products – Completed Operations	$1,000,000	Each occurrence
Aggregate	$2,000,000
Personal and Advertising Liability per Occurrence	$1,000,000	Combined Single Limit for Bodily Injury and Property Damage
    		Coverage shall be extended to include the following:
a.	Per project and per location aggregate.
b.	Premises and operations coverage.
c.	Coverage for liability of independent contractors.
d.	Products and completed operations.
e.	Coverage for explosion, collapse and underground hazards.
f.	Stop-Gap Liability: All monopolistic states - $1,000,000.
g.	Owner and Engineer as additional insureds (alternative: Furnish separate hi.	Owner's protective liability including Engineer as a named Insured. Owner
	and Engineer to be additional insureds under Products and Completed
	Operation Coverage of Contractor).
h.	Waiver of Subrogation against Owner and Engineer.
i.	60-Day Notice of Cancellation or material change.

3.	Comprehensive Automobile Liability Insurance - Occurrence Form

Any Automobile	$1,000,000	Bodily Injury and Property Damage, Combined Single Limit

Borrowed, Non-Owned	$1,000,000	Bodily Injury and & Hired Automobile Property Damage, Combined Single Limit

Coverage shall be extended to include:
a.	Contractual liability for assumed liability.
b.	Owner and Engineer as additional insureds.
c.	Waiver of Subrogation against Owner and Engineer.
d.	60 Day Notice of Cancellation or material change.
e.	Motor Carrier Act Endorsement MCS-90 (where applicable).
f.	Extra Wide/Extra Heavy Hauling Permit Endorsement where applicable.

4.      An Umbrella Liability or Excess Liability Policy over primary comprehensive
  General and Automobile Liability shall be carried in a minimum amount of:

$5,000,000	Each Occurrence
$5,000,000	Aggregate

The Umbrella or Excess Policy shall be following form of:
a.	Any Additional Insureds under primary policy.
b.	Per project and per location aggregates.
c.	Explosion, Collapse or Underground Hazards.
d.	Stop-Gap Liability.
e.	Waiver of Subrogation against Owner and Engineer.
f.	Watercraft (when employed to perform the work).
g.	Aircraft (when employed to perform the work).
h.	60-Day Notice of Cancellation or material change shall be given to Owner
		and Engineer.
                7. Add new Paragraph 5.06.A.1 – Add the following new subparagraph after Paragraph 5.06.A.1:   “a.   Include as additional insureds: “Allen County, Ohio, a municipal corporation; their respective elected officials…”
                8. Paragraph 5.06 – Change to provide that the Contractor shall obtain this policy.
                9. Paragraph 5.06 – Add new paragraph 5.06.A.8 as follows:
“8.	The maintenance of specified insurance coverage is a material element of the
	contract and failure to maintain or renew insurance coverage or provide evidence of
	renewal may be treated as a material breach of the contract.”
                10. Paragraph 5.06 – Add new paragraph 5.06.A.9 and 10 as follows:
“9.	The policies of insurance required to be purchased and maintained by Contractor in accordance with Paragraph 5.06.A shall comply with the requirements of Paragraph 5.06.C.”
                11. Paragraph 5.06 – Add new paragraph 5.06.A.10 as follows:
“10.	The Contractor shall obtain the appropriate amount of flood insurance for
physical loss or damage to the Work, temporary buildings, falsework, and
materials and equipment in transit.  The Contractor shall take into consideration
the proximity of their work to the Ottawa River, drainage swales, work on or
in proximity to storm sewer systems, unstable soils, work schedule,
climate, the Contractor’s means and methods, and any other considerations.”
                12. Paragraph 5.06.B – Delete and replace with the following:
“B. 	Contractor shall be responsible for any deductible or self-insured retention, and shall have those limits approved by Owner, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.”
                13. Paragraph 5.11 – Add new Article 5.11 as follows:
"5.11	Adequacy of Climate
	The Owner and Engineer, as well as their officers and employees, assume no responsibility for the adequacy of limits and coverages in the event of any claim(s) against the Contractor, its officers, employees, subcontractors, or any sub-subcontractor or agent of any of them. The types, forms, and amounts of insurance specified should be considered minimal, and in no way does the Owner or Engineer imply expressly or otherwise that the coverages specified will cover all exposures to loss and are in amounts sufficient to assure the Contractor, any subcontractor, or sub-subcontractor that uncovered losses will not occur or insurance limits will be adequate. The contractors should seek outside insurance counsel to determine adequate insurance protection for their particular operations. Meeting the insurance specifications shall in no way relieve any contractor, subcontractor or sub-subcontractor of any obligations under the contract, and any indemnification obligations shall survive the exhaustion of insurance limits carried, and shall be fully enforceable to the extent allowed by governing law, regardless of whether loss or losses are not covered by insurance. All insurance purchased by the Contractor for this work shall be ‘primary’ and ‘non-contributory’."

SPEC WRITER:  THE FOLLOWING ONLY USED FOR EPA-FUNDED PROJECTS.
            F. ARTICLE 6 – CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITIES

                1. Paragraph 6.01.A –  After the first sentence add:  “Contractor’s Work shall be performed according to the standard of care normally exercised by construction organizations within Ohio that are engaged in performing comparable services devoting such attention thereto and applying such skills as may be necessary to perform the work in accordance with the Contract Documents.”
                2. Paragraph 6.02.C – Add a new paragraph as following:
“C.		If the Contractor does not perform the work in accordance with the Contractor’s construction schedule and the project construction schedule, and it becomes apparent that the work may not be completed within the contract times, the Contractor shall, at no additional cost to the Owner or the Engineer, as necessary to improve the Contractor’s progress: (a) increase the number of employees in such crafts as will regain lost scheduled progress; and (b) increase the number of working hours per shift, shifts per working day, working days per week, the amount of equipment, or any combination of the foregoing measures to regain lost scheduled progress.  Contractor shall furnish such employees, materials, facilities, and equipment, and shall work such hours, including extra shifts, overtime operations, and Sundays and holidays, as may be necessary to insure the prosecution and completion of the work in accordance with the Contractor’s construction schedule and the project construction schedule.
                3. Paragraph 6.04.B.3 – Add a new paragraph as following:
“3.		In addition, the Owner may require the Contractor to prepare and submit a recovery schedule demonstrating the Contractor’s program and proposed plan to regain lost schedule progress and to insure completion of the work within the contract times. If the Owner finds the proposed plan not acceptable, the contractor may be required to submit a new plan. If the actions taken by the Contractor or the Contractor’s second proposed plan are not satisfactory, the Owner may require the Contractor to take any of the actions set forth in paragraph 6.02.C at no additional cost to the Owner.”
                4. Paragraph 6.02.D – Add a new paragraph as follows:
“D.	Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the site. The
	Contractor shall not permit employment of unfit persons or persons not skilled in
	tasks assigned to them. If the Owner or Engineer deems any employee of the
	Contractor or a subcontractor unsatisfactory, the Contractor must transfer or require
	its subcontractor to transfer such employee from the project immediately.”
                5. Paragraph 6.06.B – Add the following sentence to the end of paragraph 6.06.B.: “If requested by Owner, Contractor must furnish names of Subcontractor, Suppliers, or other persons or organizations within five days after Bid opening. See Instruction to Bidders, ARTICLE 12 for additional information.”
                6. Add Paragraph 6.06.H as follows:
SPEC WRITER:  VERIFY STATE REQUIREMENTS/APPLICABILITY FOR NOTICE OF FURNISHINGS.
 “H.  The CONTRACTOR shall furnish to the OWNER and the ENGINEER,  in writing,
	  a copy of the Notice of Furnishings for each of the Subcontractors proposed for
	  each portion of the work, prior to commencement of work on the respective
	  subcontract.”
                7. Add Paragraph 6.06.I as follows:
“I.	OWNER or ENGINEER may furnish to any such Subcontractor, Supplier, or other
	person or organization, to the extent practicable, information about amounts paid to
	CONTRACTOR in accordance with CONTRACTOR'S Applications for Payment on
	account of the particular Subcontractor's, Supplier's, or other person's or other
	organization's work.”
                8. Paragraph 6.08 – Replace this paragraph with the following:
“A.	The OWNER has obtained the following permits:

	OEPA PTI
	OEPA NOI

B. The CONTRACTOR shall secure all other permits necessary to complete the construction including but not limited to:

	Allen County Engineer’s Office R/W Permit”
                9. Paragraph 6.10 - Taxes, is amended as follows:
USE THIS PARAGRAPH A AND B ONLY IF A PUBLIC BODY OWNS AND IF STATE ALLOWS SALES TAX XEMPTIONS FOR MATERIALS INCORPORATED INTO THE WORK.
“A.	OWNER, being a public body, is exempt from taxes on material incorporated in the work. CONTRACTOR, therefore, is not required to pay such materials taxes. The OWNER will provide the tax exemption forms. These forms are to contain all necessary information required by the State.

The CONTRACTOR shall complete all applicable information and submit to OWNER for signature. The CONTRACTOR may submit an additional form with the SUB-CONTRACTOR portion blank, which may be reproduced at later dates for various SUB-CONTRACTORS.

B.	Owner’s exemption does not apply to construction tools, machinery, equipment, or other property purchased by or leased by Contractor, or to supplies or materials not incorporated into the Work.
USE THE FOLLOWING FOR ALL PROJECTS.
C.	Contractor is specifically required to abide by all local tax requirements, if any, including income tax requirements to withhold at source. Contractor acknowledges that the Contract work may take place in more than one county and more than one city, and further acknowledges different tax burdens may be imposed in each. Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and hold Owner harmless from any federal, state, or local tax liabilities incurred as a result of Contractor performing the Work.”
                10. Paragraph 6.11.A.3 – Replace with the following paragraph:
“3.  	To the fullest extend permitted by law, the Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Owner and Engineer and the consultants, professionals, agents, and employees of any of them from and against any and all claims, damages, loss and expenses, and all court costs or costs or arbitration or other dispute resolution costs, including but not limited to attorney’s fees incurred through such indemnified party’s attorney of choice, arising out of or resulting from the performance of the work but only to the extent caused in whole or in part by negligent acts or omissions of the Contractor, a subcontractor (regardless of tier), any one directly or indirectly employed by them or anyone for whose acts they may be liable, regardless of whether or not such claim, damage, loss or expenses was caused in part by a party indemnified hereunder. Such obligations shall not be construed to negate, abridge or reduce other rights or obligations of indemnity which would otherwise exist as to a party or persons described in this Paragraph 6.11.A.3. The Contractor shall promptly and contemporaneously reimburse the Owner, Engineer, and their respective successors and assigns for any cost, expense or attorneys’ fees incurred on account of any such suit or claim where incurred in enforcing the terms of the contract. The Contractor shall cause this indemnification provision to be included in every subcontract, regardless of tier, entered into with regard to the work.”
                11. Paragraph 6.11.E – Add the following paragraph:
“E.	The Contractor shall construct and maintain all necessary temporary drainage and do
	all pumping necessary to keep all excavations, floors, pits, and trenches relating to
	the work free from water. Unless specifically assigned to another, the Contractor
	shall at all times provide protection for its work from rain, wind, storms, frost, or
	heat, so as to maintain all work, materials, apparatus, and fixtures free from injury
	and damage. At the end of each day’s work, the Contractor shall cover and/or protect
	to the extent possible all work likely to be damaged. If low temperatures make it
	impossible to continue operations in spite of cold-weather precautions, the
	Contractor shall cease operation and notify the Owner and Engineer in writing.”
                12. Paragraphs 6.13 and 6.14 - Safety and Protection, are supplemented with the following: “All construction work under this Agreement is subject to Chapter XVII of Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1926 (formerly Chapter XIII of Title 29, CFR, Part 1518) titled, "Safety and Health Regulations for Construction" and subsequent amendments.”
                13. Paragraph 6.17 - Shop Drawings and Samples – Delete this paragraph entirely.
                14. Paragraph 6.19.A – Replace with the following paragraph:
“A.		Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all work will be performed in accordance with the Contract Documents, will be performed in a workmanlike manner, and will not be defective. In addition, the Contractor warrants to the Owner and Engineer that the Contractor and its subcontractors (regardless of tier) will exercise in the performance of the work the standard of care normally exercised by construction organizations within Ohio, which are engaged in performing comparable services.”
                15. Paragraph 6.19.D – Add the following paragraph:
“D.	Upon final payment, the Contractor must assign and transfer to Owner all guarantees, warranties and agreements from and with all contractors, subcontractors, vendors, suppliers, and manufacturers regarding their performance, quality of workmanship, or quality of materials supplied in connection with the work. Contractor represents and warrants that all such guarantees, warranties, and agreements will be in place and enforceable by the Owner in accordance with their terms. The Owner, however, will not assume through any assignment or transfer required under this subparagraph any of the Contractor’s payment obligations to any entities.”
                16. Paragraph 6.20.A – Delete entire paragraph and replace with the following:
“A.		To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Contractor shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Owner and Engineer and the consultants, professionals, agents, and employees of any of them from and against any and all claims, damages, loss and expenses, and all court costs or costs of arbitration or other dispute resolution costs, including but not limited to attorneys’ fees incurred through such indemnified party’s attorney of choice, arising out of or resulting in whole or in part from the performance of the work but only to the extent caused in whole or in part by negligent acts or omissions of the Contractor, a subcontractor (regardless of tier), anyone directly or indirectly employed by them or anyone for whose acts they may be liable, regardless of whether or not such claim, damage, loss, or expenses caused in part by a party indemnified hereunder. Such obligations shall not be construed to negate, abridge, or reduce other rights or obligations of indemnity which would otherwise exist as to a party or persons described in this Paragraph 6.20.A. The Contractor shall promptly and contemporaneously reimburse the Owner, Engineer, and their respective successors and assigns for any cost, expense or attorneys’ fees incurred on account of any such suit or claim where incurred in enforcing the terms of the contract. The Contractor shall cause this indemnification provision to be included in every subcontract, regardless of tier, entered into with regard to the work.”
            G. ARTICLE 9 – ENGINEER'S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION
                1. Paragraph 9.01.A – Replace the first sentence with the following:
“A. 		Engineer will be the Owner’s representative during the construction period to the extent outlined in this Article 9 and subject to the limits set forth therein and in the contract documents.”
                2. Paragraph 9.03.B – Add a new paragraph as follows:
“B.	   The responsibilities and authority and limitation thereon of the Resident Project
Representative will be as provided in these Supplementary Conditions:
    1. Conduct on site observations of the Work in progress to assist ENGINEER
in determining if the Work is in general proceeding in accordance with the
Contract Documents.
    2. Report to ENGINEER whenever any Work will not produce a completed
Project that conforms generally to the Contract Documents or will prejudice
the integrity of the design concept of the completed Project as a functioning
whole as indicated in the Contract Documents, or has been damaged, or does
not meet the requirements on any inspection, test or approval required to be
made; and advise ENGINEER of Work that should be corrected, rejected or
should be uncovered for observation, or requires special testing, inspection
or approval.
3.		Verify that tests, equipment and systems start-ups and operating and
		maintenance training are conducted in the presence of the appropriate
		personnel, and that CONTRACTOR maintains adequate records thereof; and
		observe, record and report to ENGINEER appropriate details relative to the
		test procedures and start-ups.
4.		Accompany visiting inspectors representing public or other agencies having
jurisdiction over the Project, record the results of these inspections and
report to ENGINEER.
5.		Report to ENGINEER when clarifications and interpretations of the Contract
Documents are needed and transmit to CONTRACTOR clarifications and
interpretations as issued by ENGINEER.
6.		Consider and evaluate CONTRACTOR's suggestions for modifications in
Drawings or Specifications and report recommendations to ENGINEER.
7.		Limitations of authority by Resident Project Representative:
                            a) Shall not authorize any deviation from the Contract Documents or substitution of materials or equipment (including "or-equal" items), unless authorized by ENGINEER.
                            b) Shall not exceed limitations of ENGINEER's authority as set forth in the General Conditions or Contract Documents.
                            c) Shall not undertake any of the responsibilities of CONTRACTOR, Subcontractor, Suppliers, or CONTRACTOR's superintendent.
                            d) Shall not advise on, issue directions relative to or assume control over any aspect of the means, methods, techniques, sequences or procedures of construction unless such advise or directions are specifically required by the Contract Documents.
                            e) Shall not advise on, issue directions regarding or assume control over safety precautions and programs in connection with the Work.
                            f) Shall not accept Shop Drawings or Sample submittals from anyone other than CONTRACTOR.
                            g) Shall not authorize OWNER to occupy the Project in whole or in part.
                            h) Shall not participate in specialized field or laboratory tests or inspections conducted by others except as specifically authorized by ENGINEER.”
                3. Paragraph 9.09.F – Add the following paragraph:
“F.		Under no circumstances is Engineer or resident project representative authorized to approve on behalf of Owner variations in the work which result in adjustments to the contract times or contract price. Contractor may not rely upon any verbal communication from any party as to the authorization to perform work which may give rise to adjustments in contract times or contract price.”
            H. ARTICLE 10 – CHANGES IN THE WORK; CLAIMS
                1. Paragraph 10.03.A.4 – Add the following paragraph:
“4. 		In no event is the Contractor entitled to reserve any rights or take other similar action with respect to a change order if the effect or intent of such reservation or action would be to accommodate a further adjustment in the contract times, contract price, or both, after the Contractor executes the change order. By executing a change order, the Contractor irrevocably certifies that the elements of the change order described are completely satisfied and waives all rights to seek further adjustment of the contract times, contract price, or both, at a later date with respect to the associated change in the work.”
                2. Paragraph 10.05.G – Add the following:
“Owner makes no representations with regard to subsurface conditions or site availability other than those set forth in the Contract Documents.  Contractor acknowledges and agrees he will make no claim against Owner which would affect additional contract price in the event that actual subsurface conditions do not conform to those indicated by the Contract Documents or other subsurface investigations conducted by Contractor.  Contractor assumes the risk of the assumptions made with regard to subsurface conditions in formulating the bid.  Contractor’s sole remedy in such an event shall be an increase in contract times which may be granted by Engineer and Owner should Contractor make a claim therefore as required by General Conditions 10.05.”
            I. ARTICLE 11 – COST OF THE WORK; ALLOWANCES; UNIT PRICE WORK
                1. Paragraph 11.01.A.5.c – Add the following sentence to the end of the paragraph:  “Equipment or machinery with a value of less than $1,000 will be considered small tools.”
                2. Replace Paragraph 11.03.D.1 with the following:
“If the quantities in the Contract documents are changed by more than 25% in a proposed Change Order such that application of the agreed unit prices to the quantities of work proposed causes substantial inequity to the owner or the Contractor, the applicable unit prices may be negotiated and equitably adjusted for those quantities in excess of 25%.”
            J. ARTICLE 12 – CHANGE OF CONTRACT PRICE; CHANGE OF CONTRACT TIMES
                1. Paragraph 12.01.A – The first sentence of Paragraph 12.01.A should be replaced in its entirety with the following:  “The contract price may only be changed by a written change order signed by the Contractor and the Owner or its authorized representative(s).”
                2. Paragraph 12.01.B – Replace the paragraph to read as follows: “B.  The value of any Work covered by a Change Order, any claim for an increase or decrease in the Contract Price, or any claim for damages shall be determined as follows:…”
                3. Paragraph 12.01.C.2.e – Add the following at the end of paragraph GC-12.01.C.2.e: “Any change that results in a net decrease in cost shall include the appropriate overhead and profit added thereto calculated as set forth in ARTICLE 12 of the General Conditions.”
                4. Paragraph 12.01.D – Insert new paragraph as follows:  “D.  In no event shall Contractor be entitled to any increase in the Contract Price on account of any adverse weather.”
                5. Paragraph 12.02.A – The first sentence of Paragraph 12.02.A should be replaced with the following:  “The contract times may only be changed by a written change order signed by the Contractor and the Owner or its authorized representative(s).”
                6. Paragraph 12.02.B – Replace Paragraph 12.02.B with the following language:
“B.   If the Contractor wishes to make a claim for an increase in the contract times, prompt written notice as provided herein shall be given. The Contractor’s claim shall include an estimate of cost and of probable effect of delay on progress of the work, a detailed schedule which identifies the critical portions of the work impacted by the delaying event and the dates of such impact, and a statement from Contractor that the increase requested is the entire increase in the contract time associated with the claim. The failure to provide such information and statement within the time period established in Paragraph 10.05.B shall constitute an irrevocable waiver of the claim. In the case of a continuing delay occurring on consecutive days, only one claim is necessary, provided, however, that within ten (10) days of the cessation of the cause of the continuing delay, the Contractor shall notify the construction manager in writing that the cause of the delay has ceased. The failure to give notice of the cessation of the cause of the continuing delay shall constitute an irrevocable waiver of any claim based upon the continuing delay.”
                7. Add the following paragraph as Paragraph 12.02.C:
“In addition to the requirements of Paragraph 12.02.B, if adverse weather conditions are the basis for a claim for additional time, the contractor shall support such claim with data acceptable to the Owner and Engineer that substantiates that weather conditions were significantly abnormal for the period of time and could not have reasonably been anticipated and that weather conditions had an adverse effect on a critical element of the scheduled construction. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Contract Documents to the contrary, the project times will not be adjusted on account of the impact of any  normal adverse weather or any of the work or on account of the impact of any abnormal adverse weather on non-critical elements of the work. The support for and evaluation of all adverse-weather claims shall be based upon average weather conditions over the ten (10) years immediately preceding the dates at issue and the claim as such weather conditions are recorded at the nearest local weather station.
                8. Paragraph 12.03.F – Add new paragraph as follows:
“F.  Any proposed time extensions for delays requested because of abnormal weather
	conditions shall be subject to Paragraph 12.02.C.”
            K. ARTICLE 14 – PAYMENT TO CONTRACTOR AND COMPLETION
                1. Paragraph 14.02.A.2 – Replace in its entirety with the following:
“2.	Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include a notarized affidavit of contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the work have been applied to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated with the prior applications for payment.  In addition to any other information that the Owner or Engineer may require, the Contractor’s notarized application for payment package shall include: (1) a partial conditional lien waiver from the Contractor for the total payment requested in the application for payment; (2) a partial conditional lien waiver from all subcontractors (regardless of tier) and material and equipment suppliers on those account the Contractor is seeking payment in the application for payment for the total amount of such payment requested; (3) a partial unconditional lien waiver from the Contractor for the sum of all previous paid progress payments.  Preliminary copy of the Application for Payment shall have quantities reviewed and agreed by the Engineer’s Resident Project Representative, if on site.”
                2. Add new Paragraph to 14.02.A.4 as follows:
“4.	Each progress payment shall be accompanied by an approved and updated schedule
	or acceptable recovery schedule or progress payment shall be rejected.”
                3. Add new Paragraph 14.02.A.5 as follows:
NOTE SPECIFIC STATE OR FUNDING REQUIREMENTS AND ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR RETAINAGE.
"5.   	  Partial Payment
Partial payments to the CONTRACTOR for labor performed and materials delivered to the site or incorporated into the Project under either a unit or lump sum price contract shall be made at the rate of 92 percent of the estimates as prepared by the CONTRACTOR and approved by the ENGINEER until the work under this Contract is determined by the ENGINEER to be 50 percent complete.

Labor performed and material incorporated into the Project after the work under this Contract is approved as 50 percent complete, will be paid for on the basis of 100 percent of the estimates as prepared by the CONTRACTOR and approved by the ENGINEER.

A Contract shall be considered 50 percent complete when the CONTRACTOR has been paid an amount equal to 50 percent of the total cost of the labor of the Contract and 50 percent of the total cost of the material of the Contract.

All material furnished and delivered but not actually included in the construction and approved by the ENGINEER, after the work under this Contract is 50 percent complete, shall be paid for at the rate of 92 percent of the invoiced value of the materials. The balance of such estimates shall be paid when the material is incorporated into and becomes a part of the building construction.
                4. Paragraph 14.02.A.6 – Add new paragraph  as follows:
NOTE SPECIFIC STATE AND FUNDING REQUIREMENTS AND ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR RETAINAGE.
6.       Final Estimate
A final estimate shall be made as soon as practicable after completion of the work under this Contract and final approval by the ENGINEER and acceptance by the OWNER, in writing. After such approval, the CONTRACTOR will be paid such portion of the remaining Contract Price as is necessary to bring the aggregate partial payments received to 96 percent of this Final Estimate. The final estimate shall be based on a total costs including all change orders.
                5. Paragraph 14.02.A.7 – Add new paragraph as follows:
NOTE SPECIFIC STATE AND FUNDING REQUIREMENTS AND ADJUST ACCORDINGLY FOR RETAINAGE.
 7.      Retention
After the Contract is 50 percent complete all retained funds will be placed in an escrow account and the OWNER agrees to pay the CONTRACTOR the accumulated interest thereon upon release of the retainage, less expenses incurred in the establishment and maintenance of that escrow account by the Owner.

Upon acceptance of Substantial Completion, the amount retained will be reduced to 4%. The 4% balance  shall be retained for 30 days after completion and final approval by the OWNER in writing.

If at any time prior to Final Payment the Contractor is found to be in violation of Paragraph 14.02 of the General Conditions, the Owner will retain 10% of the amount of all Progress Payments."
                6. Paragraph 14.02.B.6, add new paragraph as follows:
“6.	Engineer may also refuse to recommend a minimum of 25% up to a maximum of 100% of any payment if any of the following occur:
a.	Third party claims filed or reasonable evidence indicating probable filing of
	such claims.
b.	Failure of the Contractor to make payments properly to Subcontractors or for
	labor, materials, or equipment. Reasonable evidence that the Work cannot be
	completed for the unpaid balance of the Contract Sum.
c.	Damage to the Owner or another Contractor.
d.	Reasonable evidence that the Work will not be completed within the.	Contract Time.
e.	Persistent failure to carry out the Work in accordance with the Contract
	Documents.
f.	Failure to maintain updating of "As‑Built Drawings.
g.	Failure to properly coordinate with other Contractors.
h.	O&M Manual not submitted to the Engineer when equipment is delivered to
	job site.”
                7. Paragraph 14.02.D.4 – Insert the following paragraphs immediately following paragraph 14.02.D.3:
“4.	Notwithstanding any other provision of the contract documents to the contrary, if Contractor disputes any determination by the Owner or Engineer with regard to an application for payment or a certificate for payment, the Contractor must nevertheless continue to prosecute the work expeditiously.
NOTE SPECIFIC STATE REQUIREMENTS AND STATUTES.

5.	The Contractor shall keep the funds encumbered for the work free and clear of all claims as defined under Ohio Revised Code Section 1311.25, et seq ., which claims are also referred to throughout the Contract Documents as liens.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Contract Documents to the contrary, if any such claim is filed or asserted, or where there is any reason to believe that any such claim may be filed or asserted at any time, the Owner may refuse to make any payment otherwise due to the Contractor or withhold from any payment due the Contractor a sum sufficient, in the opinion of the Owner or as required by law, to pay all obligations and expenses necessary to satisfy such claim and to indemnify the Owner against any such claim and until the Contractor furnishes satisfactory evidence that the indebtedness and the claim in respect thereof, if any, has been satisfied, discharged, and released of record, if any, as provided by law pending the resolution of any dispute between the Contractor and the entity filing such claim.  If such evidence is not furnished by the Contractor to the Owner within a period of seven (7) days after demand therefore, the Owner may discharge such indebtedness as provided by law and deduct the amount required therefore together with any and all losses, costs, damages and attorneys’ fee (incurred through an attorney of the Owner’s choosing) suffered or incurred by the Owner from any sum payable to the Contractor.  If payments then and thereafter due to the Contractor are not sufficient to cover such amount, the Contractor shall immediately pay the difference to the Owner.  Final payment to the Contractor may be withheld until the work and any funds encumbered therefore are free and clear of any and all claims or rights thereto arising because of the work performed or materials furnished under the Contract Documents.”
                8. Paragraph 14.04.F – add new paragraph as follows:
“F.	The Owner and the Engineer shall have the option to correct or conclude any and all Construction Punch List items not completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the Substantial Completion Certificate by utilizing its own forces or by hiring others, pursuant to Termination of the Contract under Article 15.  The cost of such correction of remaining Construction Punch List items by the Owner or others shall be deducted from remaining monies due the Contractor.  If the Contractor does not complete certain Construction Punch List items within specified time periods, all warranties and guarantees related to such incomplete Construction Punch List items shall not begin to elapse until issuance of Final Payment for the work..”
                9. Paragraph 14.05 – Add the following new paragraph immediately after 14.05.A.1:
“2.	Owner may at any time request Contractor in writing to permit Owner to take over operation of any such part of the Work although it is not substantially complete.  A copy of such request will be sent to Engineer and within a reasonable time thereafter Owner, Contractor, and Engineer shall make an inspection of that part of the Work to determine its status of completion and will prepare a list of the items remaining to be completed or corrected thereon before final payment.  If Contractor does not object in writing to Owner and Engineer that such part of the Work is not ready for separate operation by Owner, Engineer will finalize the list of items to be completed or corrected and will deliver such lists to Owner and Contractor together with a written recommendation as to the division of responsibilities pending final payment between Owner and Contractor with respect to security, operation, safety, maintenance, utilities, insurance, warranties, and guarantees for that part of the Work, which will become binding upon Owner and Contractor at the time when Owner takes over such operation (unless they shall have otherwise agreed in writing and so informed Engineer).  During such operation and prior to Substantial Completion of such part of the Work, Owner shall allow Contractor reasonable access to complete or correct items on said list and to complete other related Work.”
                10. Paragraph 14.05.A.2 shall be renumbered to 14.05.A.3.
                11. Paragraph 14.05.A.3 shall be renumbered to 14.05.A.4.
                12. Paragraph 14.05.A.4 shall be renumbered to 14.05.A.5.
                13. Paragraph 14.07.D – Add this additional paragraph following 14.07.C.1:
“Not withstanding any provision of the Contract Documents to the contrary, (a) the Owner  may make final payment or any part thereof jointly to the Contractor and its subcontractors (regardless of tier) and material and equipment suppliers; and (b) final completion of the work will not occur until:
    1. The work is entirely complete in accordance with the Contract Documents;
    2. The Contractor has fulfilled all of its duties and obligations under the contract (other than warranty and similar obligations that survive final completion);
    3. The Contractor delivers to the Owner a final unconditional lien waiver from the Contractor and each of the Contractor’s subcontractors (regardless of tier) and material and equipment suppliers; and
    4. The Contractor has fulfilled all of his project closeout obligations, including, but not limited to, providing all maintenance and operating instructions and manuals, and all drawings, certificates, bonds, guarantees, and other documents required by the Contract Documents to the construction manager or Owner as appropriate.”
                14. Paragraph 14.10 – Add new paragraph as follows:
“10.	The CONTRACTOR, ENGINEER, and OWNER will execute a final Contract
		Completion Certificate for the Contract which indicates the date of acceptance.
		The form will be provided by the ENGINEER upon written notification by the
		Contractor that the Work is complete.”
            L. ARTICLE 15 – SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION
                1. Paragraph 15.02.C – Replace the second sentence of Paragraph 15.02.C with the following sentence:  “If the unpaid balance of the contract price exceeds all claims, losses and damages (including but not limited to all fees and charges of Engineers, Architects, attorneys, consultants, and other professionals, all as chosen by the Owner, and all court or arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) sustained by Owner arising out of or relating to completing work, such excesses will be paid to Contractor.”
                2. Paragraph 15.02.G – Add the following new paragraph immediately after Paragraph 15.02.F:
“G.	In the event that the Owner’s termination for cause pursuant to this paragraph is determined by an arbitrator, arbitration panel or court to have been unjustified, such termination shall be deemed to have been a termination pursuant to Paragraph 15.03.”
                3. Paragraph 15.02.H – Add the following new paragraph:
“H.		Upon termination pursuant to this Paragraph 15.02, the Contractor shall, unless the notice of termination specifically directs otherwise, immediately discontinue the work, place no further orders or subcontracts for materials, equipment, services, or facilities, except as may be necessary for completion of such portion of the work as is not discontinued; promptly make every effort to procure cancellation upon terms satisfactory to the Owner of all orders and subcontracts to the extent that they relate to the performance of a discontinued portion of the work; and thereafter do only such work as may be necessary to preserve and protect the work already in progress and to protect materials and equipment on the Project site or in transit thereto, and deliver such materials and equipment to Owner upon demand.”
                4. Paragraph 15.02.I – Add the following new paragraph:
“I.		When the Owner has terminated the Contractor’s services pursuant to this Paragraph 15.02, the termination shall not affect any rights or remedies of the Owner against the Contractor then existing or which may thereafter accrue.  Any retention or payment of funds due the Contractor by the Owner shall not release the Contractor from liability for performance of the work in accordance with the requirements of the Contract Documents.”
                5. Paragraph 15.03.A.1 – Replace with the following:
SPECIFIER TO DETERMINE IF ALLOWABLE OH&P IS TO BE LISTED.
“1.		Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for overhead and profit on such work not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the cost of the completed and acceptable Work;…”
                6. Paragraph 15.03.C – Add the following new paragraph immediately after paragraph 15.03.B:
“C.	If the Owner terminates the contract without cause and for Owner’s convenience, and there exists an event of default by the Contractor, the Contractor shall only be entitled to receive such sums as it would be entitled to receive under Paragraph 15.02.
		1.	Upon receipt of written notice from the Owner of such termination for the
			Owner’s convenience, the Contractor shall:
a.	cease operations as directed by the Owner in the notice;
b.	take actions necessary, or that the Owner may direct, for the protection
	and preservation of the work; and
b.	except for work directed to be performed prior to the effective date of
termination stated in the notice, terminate all existing subcontracts and
purchase orders and enter into no further subcontracts and purchase
orders.”
            M. ARTICLE 16 – DISPUTE RESOLUTION
NOTE:  THE OWNER’S LEGAL REPRESENTATION SHOULD BE CONSULTED FOR THIS ARTICLE.
                1. Paragraph 16.02, Dispute Resolution – Insert the following new paragraph:
“16.02	Dispute Resolution:

A.	Any claim arising out of or related to the contract, except claims relating to aesthetic effect or those waived, shall, after decision by the Engineer or one hundred twenty (120) days after submission of the claim to the Engineer, whichever is sooner, be subject to arbitration or litigation at the Owner’s option if the Owner is a party to the claim.  The Owner’s decision to arbitrate or litigate is at the Owner’s sole discretion; provided, however, that in the event the Owner has not designated either arbitration or litigation within ten (10) days after the Owner’s receipt of a written request from the Contractor to do so, the Owner shall be deemed to have designated litigation.”
                2. Paragraph 16.03, Arbitration – Insert the following new paragraph:
“16.03  Arbitration:

A.	If the Owner decides that a claim to which it is a party shall be resolved by arbitration, the arbitration shall be initiated and proceed in accordance with the construction industry arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association in effect as of the date on which the demand for arbitration is made.  Any arbitration to which the Owner is a party and which arises out of or relates to this project shall be held only in Hocking County, Ohio.

B.	During arbitration proceedings, the Owner and Contractor shall not be relieved of the obligation to continue to perform their obligations under the Contract Documents which should proceed notwithstanding the pendency of an arbitration.

C.	A demand for arbitration shall be made within the time limits specified in these General Conditions, if applicable, and in other cases within a reasonable time after the claim has arisen, and in no event shall it be made after the date when institution of legal or equitable proceeds based upon such claim would be barred by the applicable statute of limitations as determined by Ohio law.

D.	A party who files a Notice of Demand for arbitration must assert in the demand all claims then known to that party on which arbitration is permitted to be demanded.  When a party fails to include a claim through oversight, inadvertence or excusable neglect, or when a claim has matured or been acquired subsequently, the arbitrator or arbitrators may permit amendment.

E.	The award rendered by the arbitrator or arbitrators shall be final, and judgment may be entered upon it in accordance with the applicable law in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
                3. Paragraph 16.04, Litigation – Insert the following new paragraph:
“16.04 – Litigation:

Any litigation to which the Owner is a party and which arises out of or relates to the project shall be brought and held only in the Common Pleas Court of the county where the Work is located.  The Owner and Contractor consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of and venue in that court.
                4. Paragraph 16.05, Limitation on Consolidation or Joinder – Insert the following new paragraph:
“16.05 – Limitation on Consolidation or Joinder:

Except with the Owner’s written consent, no arbitration or litigation arising out of or relating to the project shall include, by consolidation or joinder, or in any other manner, any parties other than the Owner and the Contractor.  The Owner’s consent to joinder must contain a specific reference to this subparagraph 16.05 and shall not be construed as consent to arbitration or litigation involving any entity or claim not described therein.”
            N. ARTICLE 17 – MISCELLANEOUS
                1. Paragraph 17.01.A.1 and A.2 – Replace Paragraphs 17.01.A.1 and A.2 in their entirety with the following:
“1.	Delivered in person to the individual referenced in the Agreement, or
 2.	Delivered or sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to the persons or
individual set forth in the Agreement.
 3.	If the individual referred in the Agreement is no longer employed with said party,
then it shall be delivered to an officer of the Corporation for whom it is intended.”
        1.3 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
            A. Access to Places of Manufacture
                1. The ENGINEER, OWNER, and their inspectors and agents shall, at all times, have immediate access to all places of manufacture where materials specifically identified for the projects are being made. The CONTRACTOR shall, whenever so requested, give the ENGINEER access to the proper invoices, bills of lading, etc., and shall provide scales and assistance for weighing or other assistance for measuring and testing any of the materials.
            B. Liquidated Damages
                1. The CONTRACTOR, and his Surety, acknowledges that time is of the essence in performing the work stipulated in the Agreement. Should CONTRACTOR fail to meet the completion dates set forth in the Agreement, OWNER will suffer added administrative and engineering costs, the necessity of adjusting its start-up program for employing the improvements constructed pursuant to this Agreement along with substantial costly inconveniences, thereby reducing the value to OWNER of this Agreement. Thus, for each day by which CONTRACTOR fails to meet a completion date, CONTRACTOR'S compensation shall be reduced by the following amount of liquidated administrative cost damages per day.
NOTE:  A REAONSABLE DETERMINATION OF THESE COSTS SHALL BE USED TO SET THOSE AMOUNTS.

Item	Damages
Substantial Completion	$500.00
Completion of Work	$500.00

In the event that the Substantial Completion date has surpassed the Final Completion date, the liquidated damages shall be cumulative. Owner’s identification of the liquidated damage figure does not include a component for fines or administrative penalty from governmental agencies.
                2. The CONTRACTOR shall guarantee that he can and will complete the work within the time limit stated in this Contract or within the times as extended as provided elsewhere in this Contract. For the reason that the damage and loss and additional expenses, fees, etc., to the OWNER which will result from the failure of the CONTRACTOR to complete the work within the stipulated time, and will be most difficult or impossible to accurately assess the CONTRACTOR shall be assessed liquidated damages for each calendar day including Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays by which the CONTRACTOR shall fail to complete the work of any part thereof, in accordance with provisions hereof and such liquidated damages shall not be considered as a penalty. The OWNER will deduct and retain out of any money due or to become due hereunder the amount of the liquidated damages, and in case these amounts are less than the amount of liquidated damages, the CONTRACTOR shall be liable for the payment of the difference upon demand of the OWNER.
                3. It is agreed that time is of the essence of each and every portion of the work wherein a definite and certain length of time is fixed for the performance of any act whatsoever; and where, under the Agreement, an additional time is allowed for completion of any work, the new time limit fixed by such extension shall be of the essence of this Agreement; provided that the CONTRACTOR shall not be charged with liquidated damages or any excess cost when the delay in completion of the work is due:
                    a. To any preference, priority or allocation order duly issued by the Government.
                    b. To any unforeseeable cause beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the CONTRACTOR, including, but not restricted to, acts of God or of a public enemy, acts of the OWNER, acts of another CONTRACTOR in the performance of an Agreement with the OWNER, fires, floods, epidemics, quarantine restrictions, strikes, freight embargoes, and unusually severe weather; and
                    c. To any delays of Subcontractors or suppliers occasioned by any of the causes specified in sub-sections 1) and 2) of this Article.
                4. All claims for an extension of the Contract Time must conform to the requirements of G.C. Article 12. The granting of an extension of the Contract Time is not a requisite to relieving the CONTRACTOR from the assessment of liquidated damages.
            C. Archeological Discoveries
                1. When the CONTRACTOR'S excavating operations encounter remains of prehistoric people's dwelling sites or artifacts of historical or archeological significance, the operations shall be temporarily discontinued. The ENGINEER will contact archeological authorities to determine the disposition thereof. After consultation with the archeological authorities, the ENGINEER may elect to discontinue the work in the area indefinitely, resume normal excavation, or excavate for artifacts. When directed by the ENGINEER to excavate for artifacts, the CONTRACTOR shall excavate the site in such a manner as to preserve the artifacts encountered and shall remove them for delivery to the custody of the proper authorities. Such excavation will be considered and paid for as extra work.
NOTE:   USE BELOW FOR DRINKING WATER PLANTS - - OHIO ONLY.
            D. Chemicals, Substances, and Materials in Contact with Potable Water
                1. All chemicals, substances, and materials that come in contact with potable water shall conform to Ohio Administrative Code OAC 3745-83-03 which reads as follows:

"All chemicals, substances, and materials added to or brought in contact with water in or intended to be used in a public water system or used for the purpose of treating, conditioning, altering, or modifying the characteristics of such water shall be shown by either the manufacturer, distributor, or purveyor to be non-toxic and harmless to humans when used in accordance with the formulation and concentration as specified by the manufacturer, and shall conform with the "American National Standards Institute/National Sanitation Foundation" (ANSI/NSF) standard 60 or 61. Any organization certified by the "American National Standards Institute" may certify in writing that a product conforms with these standards.

All chemicals, substances, and materials approved by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency prior to the effective date of this rule shall retain approval for one year."
                2. The two organizations that are currently certified by the "American National Standards Institute" are:
                    a. NSF International: Phone (313) 769-8010
                    b. Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. Phone (708) 272-8800
OR  - -  FOR PROJECT OUTSIDE OF OHIO USE THE FOLLOWING.
            E. Chemicals, Substances, and Materials in Contact with Potable Water
                1. All chemicals, substances, and materials that come in contact with potable water shall conform to Ohio Administrative Code OAC 3745-83-03 which reads as follows:

"All chemicals, substances, and materials added to or brought in contact with water in or intended to be used in a public water system or used for the purpose of treating, conditioning, altering, or modifying the characteristics of such water shall be shown by either the manufacturer, distributor, or purveyor to be non-toxic and harmless to humans when used in accordance with the formulation and concentration as specified by the manufacturer, and shall conform with the "American National Standards Institute/National Sanitation Foundation" (ANSI/NSF) standard 60 or 61. Any organization certified by the "American National Standards Institute" may certify in writing that a product conforms with these standards.
                2. The two organizations that are currently certified by the "American National Standards Institute" are:
                    a. NSF International: Phone (313) 769-8010
                    b. Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. Phone (708) 272-8800
    PART 2  PRODUCTS  (NOT USED)
    PART 3  EXECUTION  (NOT USED)

END OF SECTION 00808
