CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE

January 20, 2026

There was a meeting of the Citizens Advisory Committee of the Lima-Allen County Regional Planning Commission on Tuesday, January 20, 2026, at 10:00 a.m. in the Conference Room of the Commission office located at 130 West North Street, Lima, Ohio.

Ms. Kinnear brought the meeting to order at 10:00 and proceeded with the agenda after introductions were made.

    1. ROLL CALL
Sean Oden	Low Vision Coalition
Chad Welker	Activate Allen County

VIRTUAL
Kim Bruns	WOCAP
Jessie Doyle		Ohio Means Jobs/JFS
Kayla Monfort	Activate Allen County
Shelby Poling	Area Agency on Aging

STAFF
		Megan Kinnear
	Rebecca Phillips
	Melissa Reed

    2. CITY OF LIMA TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS-Speaker: Megan Kinnear

Ms. Kinnear discussed the Main Street Bridge Replacement and referred to an article distributed by the City of Lima Department of Public Works.  They are looking for public input in Mid-March at the Lima YMCA.

The City of Lima wants feedback and has provided a City of Lima Community Needs Survey.  Copies are provided at the meeting, and it is noted that the survey can be completed on their website.   It was requested to please share on social media.  There was a discussion about sidewalks.

Ms. Kinnear presented an article referring to (2) two roundabout designs at (2) two Allen County intersections.  The Public Input has closed, but this gives information about the designs and locations of the roundabouts.  The intersections are:
    • State Route 117 and Kemp Road
    • State Route 501 and Ft Amanda Road

    3. 2025 FATAL CRASH REPORT DRAFT-Speaker: Megan Kinnear

Ms. Kinnear presented the 2025 Fatal Crash Report Draft.  She explained that fatalities that would not be included are some medical events, such as a heart attack, in which no other drivers are involved.  Other fatalities that may not be included include delays in reporting, if it is still under investigation, if they were on private property, and if it was not transportation-related.  Fatal injuries are reported within 30 days.  There is an increase in fatal crashes compared to last year.  There are (4) four more fatal crashes involving (5) five more fatalities.  There was a large amount of male to female ratio of (11) twelve males and (4) three females.  Ms. Kinnear is asking for feedback and Public Participation.  The 2025 Fatal Crash Report Draft can be found on our website at LACRPC.COM.  Public feedback will be added to the appendix.   There was also an extended holiday period due to Christmas and New Year's falling close to the weekend, according to the Ohio Highway Patrol.  There were no fatalities during that holiday period.

    4. OTHER

The Baby on Board grant is active, but only about 10% of the passes available to give out are taken advantage of.  St. Rita's Hospital, Lima Memorial Hospital, Heartbeat of Lima, WOCAP, and Connecting Borders are the overseeing agencies.

The Regional Transit Authority (RTA) started expansion into VanWert County.  There are both Micro-transit and Demand Response now available.  The maximum cost for travel within VanWert is $12.00.

Mr. Oden with the Low Vision Coalition gave an update on Audible Pedestrian Signals.  Currently, there are (6) in the city of Lima.  They are possibly installing more at the intersections of:
    • Metcalf Street and Robb Avenue
    • West Street and Robb Avenue

    5. ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at 11:10 a.m.
