Date	March 18, 2009

Division of Environmental and Financial Assistance
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
P. O. Box 1049
Columbus, Ohio 43216-1049

	and

Ohio Water Development Authority
480 S. High St.
Columbus, Ohio 43215

Gentlemen:

     I am the Prosecutor and Legal Counsel for the County of Allen and the Allen County Commissioners (Borrower).  In that capacity, I have reviewed a Water Pollution Control Loan fund Agreement (the loan agreement) dated as of March 26, 2009 among the Borrower, the Director of the Environmental Protection Agency (the “Director”) and the Ohio Water Development Authority ( the “Authority”); a resolution or ordinance (the “Legislation”) adopted or passed by the legislative authority of the Borrower on September 30, 2008, regarding the Loan Agreement; such laws of the State of Ohio and such other documents, certificates, resolutions and information as I deem relevant and necessary in rendering this opinion.

	Based upon the foregoing, I am of the opinion that:

	a.	The Borrower is a validly existing County and political subdivision of the state of Ohio, duly organized and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.

	b.	The Borrower has full power and authority to enter into the Loan Agreement, to carry out the transactions contemplated thereby and to perform its obligations thereunder.

  	c.	The Borrower has duly adopted the Legislation, has duly authorized, executed, acknowledged and delivered the Loan Agreement, and the Loan Agreement is legal valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms.

	d.	All formal actions of the legislative authority of the Borrower concerning or relating to the enactment of the Legislation was taken in an open meeting of the said legislative authority and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in compliance with all legal requirements including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.

     This opinion is qualified to the extent that the binding effect and enforceability of the Borrower’s obligations under the Loan Agreement are subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, and moratorium laws and other laws of general application affecting enforcement of creditors’ rights generally and to application of general principle of equity.

Juergen Waldick
Allen County Prosecutor
