From:	Dickman, Nathan [nathan.dickman@aecom.com]
Sent:	Friday, May 08, 2015 9:02 AM
To:	Judd Gleason; Tod Schlachter
Cc:	Brad Niemeyer; Steve Kayatin; Bill Horvath; 
etrachsel@allencountyohio.com; insp@allencountyohio.com; 
Casey, Matthew
Subject:	RE: Allen County Force Main Field Order 001

Judd,

We understand your position stated below; however, the situation has developed such that you will need to find a new 
site outside of Perry Township.

In response to your question regarding the submittal of the new spoil disposal site location, a map or an address is 
suitable. Dispose of drilling fluid and other spoils in accordance with the laws, ordinances, regulations of Ohio and 
other applicable agencies.

Feel free to give me a call if you wish to discuss further.

Nathan Dickman, PE 
Project Engineer, Water Resources 
D 1-614-600-5854  C 1-419-305-9338
nathan.dickman@aecom.com 
 
AECOM
277 W Nationwide Blvd, Columbus, Ohio 43215  
T 1-614-464-4500 F 1-614-464-0588 
www.aecom.com

From: Judd Gleason [mailto:judd@SSDIRECTIONALBORING.COM]  
Sent: Thursday, May 07, 2015 5:44 PM 
To: Dickman, Nathan; Tod Schlachter 
Cc: Brad Niemeyer; Steve Kayatin; Bill Horvath; etrachsel@allencountyohio.com; 
insp@allencountyohio.com; Casey, Matthew 
Subject: RE: Allen County Force Main Field Order 001

Nathan, 
I really don’t mean to be a horse’s ass about this but just for everyone’s clarification, please bear with 
me on this.  Please attempt to clarify “extent of detail” associated and expected with a plan 
submission.   Since there seems to be dissention among a select few required or key people involved 
thus far, it is probable that more dissention will occur without first placing limits on the amount or 
type of information that is being required to be submitted.    What has boggled this process is we all 
have opinions and interpretations of the information we read and hear.   I frequently tell my kids to 
remember you can’t believe everything you read on the internet – and for whatever its worth,  if 
Halliburton confirms that I won’t leave my wife a widow, I would gladly ingest a sample of the material 
we are all talking about.  I think it is that plain and simple.

To save everyone time, I have listed the all applicable specification sections for your review and 
consideration in attempting to answer the “extent of detail” question:
*         Per Section 02560-AD1-2 Item 1.5.B. specifically states “Submit details of equipment and 
written procedure with working drawings describing in detail the proposed boring method and 
the entire HDD operation, including but not limited to:
o   Item 4 – states “Spoil disposal site location” – IS A SIMPLE MAP SUITABLE HERE?
*         Per Section 01100-1 Item 1.5.A.Item 17 – “all excess or unsuitable excavated material shall be 
properly disposed of off-site.  Dumping of such material on public or private wetlands is 
prohibited” – UNDERSTOOD NO ISSUE HERE
*         Per Section 2560AD1 –6 Item 3.2.B. Drilling Fluids Item 1 – “Dispose of drilling fluid and other 
spoils in accordance with the laws, ordinances, regulations of Ohio, and other applicable 
agencies…..”   
o   S&S communicated with Allen County Environmental Office Director Bill Kelly several 
times attempting to navigate Allen County and State of Ohio requirements in 
considering various potential sites for disposal.  Mr. Kelly had reached out to the Ohio 
EPA as part of his assessment and consideration for working with us.
o   Allen County Environmental Office obtained EPA document (attached) which outlines 
recommendations, means, methods of containment and interment.  Conditional 
approval was granted for ELOM site, but a request was made for a formal plan.   In the 
mean time, we moved interest to other locations that were not in as close proximity to 
the Ottawa River as this location.
*         Also, please consider that after identifying and working with private property owner (which 
normally has jurisdiction for all activities that aren’t illegal) for the Eastom Circle/Breese Road 
location in lieu of first contacting Township, various interactions were made with Soil Erosion 
representative and Mr. Kelly’s office whereby needs were addressed by both S&S and 
property owner.
       *         Stop dumping order issued based on a loosely applied Perry Township ordinance 
section 8.8 - OTHER REQUIRED CONDITIONS
?  “Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be 
limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, 
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste and 
must comply with the performance standards of this Resolution.”  (For the 
record, I believe the implication here is human waste/sewage or industrial 
waste such as oil water separator liquids, etc.).  Also, please consider no 
mention of a minimum % of water content of material being dumped etc.

I think the list of many involved are being confused by the terms “Liquid”, “waste” and the like.  It is 
unfair to even consider this material the same type of slurry used in the fracking industry, or any other 
industrial waste.   

The fact of the matter is this material is inert and will dry – much like a wet load of excavated soil from 
a project being done after a saturating rain.   In a 1000 gallon tank load, there may be 10-20% water, 
30-40% bentonite, and 50-60% existing soils that have been cut and removed from the bore hole.  
  The only consistent difference from and open cut job is the water content in each load.

No offense to anyone here, but adding a layer or layers of oversight on this process is not going to 
make the project better and  won’t prevent people from choosing not to use their God given common 
sense.  It is simply going to confuse the issue more than it already has.  This is a very common sense 
issue that is being dramatized because of other factors which are outside us.  

Judd



From: Dickman, Nathan [mailto:nathan.dickman@aecom.com]  
Sent: Thursday, May 7, 2015 3:57 PM 
To: Judd Gleason; Tod Schlachter 
Cc: Brad Niemeyer; Steve Kayatin; Bill Horvath; etrachsel@allencountyohio.com; 
insp@allencountyohio.com; Casey, Matthew 
Subject: Allen County Force Main Field Order 001

Judd, Tod,

See attached.

Nathan Dickman, PE 
Project Engineer, Water Resources 
D 1-614-600-5854  C 1-419-305-9338
nathan.dickman@aecom.com 
 
AECOM
277 W Nationwide Blvd, Columbus, Ohio 43215  
T 1-614-464-4500 F 1-614-464-0588 
www.aecom.com


This e-mail and any attachments contain AECOM confidential information that may be proprietary or privileged. If you receive 
this message in error or are not the intended recipient, you should not retain, distribute, disclose or use any of this information 
and you should destroy the e-mail and any attachments or copies.

