From:	Casey, Matthew [matthew.casey@aecom.com]
Sent:	Thursday, November 05, 2015 8:18 AM
To:	Steve Kayatin (skayatin@allencountyohio.com); Brad 
Niemeyer (bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com)
Cc:	Dickman, Nathan
Subject:	FW: Ottawa River Force Main Revised Location
Attachments:	MatthewCasey1.pdf

Steve, Brad,

Attached is K&K’s proposal to do the additional survey work on Fino’s (sp?) property. Its $8,800.  We 
didn’t have this in our scope of work and really can’t absorb the cost.  In my opinion, this is considered 
a liquidated damage and could be forced onto the contractor, should L.D.’s be withheld.  In either 
case, please let me know if you are in agreement with the work and if K&K should bill the County 
directly.  

As Mike Buettner states in his proposal, he can get started immediately.

Give me a call if you have any questions.

Thanks

Matthew L. Casey, P.E.  
Department/Project Manager  
D 1-614-600-5855    C 1-614-572-8213 
matthew.casey@aecom.com  
 
AECOM
277 W. Nationwide Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43215 
T 1-614-464-4500 F 1-614-464-0588
www.aecom.com

This electronic communication, which includes any files or attachments thereto, contains proprietary or confidential information and may be privileged 
and otherwise protected under copyright or other applicable intellectual property laws. All information contained in this electronic communication is 
solely for the use of the individual(s) or entity to which it was addressed. If you are not the intended recipient(s), you are hereby notified that 
distributing, copying, or in any way disclosing any of the information in this e-mail is strictly prohibited. If you have received this e-mail in error, please 
notify the sender immediately, and destroy the communication and any files or attachments in their entirety, whether in electronic or hard copy format. 
Since data stored on electronic media can deteriorate, be translated or modified, AECOM, its subsidiaries, and/or affiliates will not be liable for the 
completeness, correctness or readability of the electronic data. The electronic data should be verified against the hard copy.

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail.



From: Mike Buettner [mailto:mgbuettner@kohlikaliher.com]  
Sent: Wednesday, November 04, 2015 9:03 AM 
To: Casey, Matthew 
Subject: Ottawa River Force Main Revised Location

Good Morning Matt--

Yesterday I had the opportunity to walk the site of the proposed work area, and as a result, I 
have prepared the attached proposal.
I am glad I did walk the site, because I now have a better feel for just how much tree cover there 
will be, with or without leaves.
I have concluded that almost all of our field work will need to be done using a total station, and 
not the GPS equipment.
Please review the attached proposal, and get back with me if further discussion is needed.
Thanks for the opportunity to continue our working relationship with you.
It is very much appreciated.

Respectfully submitted,
Mike Buettner, Chief Surveyor
KOHLI & KALIHER ASSOCIATES, INC.
419.227.1135
