3230 N. Cole Street, Lima, Ohio 45801Phone: 419-228-3700 ex.8866Fax: 419-229-3297Website: .allencountyohio.com/san/san.html

December 5, 2006

Mr. Tom Poffenbarger, P.E.
Ohio EPA Div. of Surface Water
Northwest District Office
347 North Dunbridge Road
Bowling Green, Ohio 43402

RE: Status of the Seriff Sub-Basin Pilot Program and Developments

Dear Mr. Poffenbarger,

This correspondence is in regards to the current status of the Investigation and Remediation of Private Property Issues on the Shawnee II Collection System, specifically the Seriff Sub- Basin Pilot Program, and the developments that have raised considerations that may impact our Sanitary Sewer Overflow (SSO) closure program.

As your are aware the Director’s Final Findings and Orders, Section V. ORDERS, Part B. stipulates that the county, “Begin investigation and remediation of private property issues as soon as possible, but not later than December 31, 2006”, on the Shawnee II Collection System.  In regards to the Investigation part of this the county finalized a large percentage of this endeavor with the intensive Shawnee II Collection System Investigation project in 2001.  Part of this program was to do building inspections on approximately 3,700 customers as well as smoke testing of their laterals.  In 2005 the County completed the lateral investigations on all suspected laterals within the Seriff Sub-Basin as well as another area referred to as the Shawnee Meadows Sub-Basin.  Upon completion of this work the county put together a database of our findings and began discussions on the remediation steps to address building defects and the lateral issue, both public and private. I would like to note at this point that the county has also been conducting flow monitoring of the both of these sub-basins in a way that isolates the flow from the balance of the system to provide the county with flow data to measure the effectiveness of our remediation work. This brings me to the point of this correspondence, which are the developments that have taken place since September of this year.

Page Two
Status of the Seriff Sub-Basin Pilot Program and Developments (cont.)

The flow data that we have been collecting in the pilot sub-basin suggests that our remediation efforts have reduced the peaks on our graphs generated by our flow meter software.  In order to substantiate our conclusion the county retained the services of an engineering consulting firm, URS Corp., to review our data and conduct flow modeling. According to our consulting engineer’s technical services schedule, the county will be receiving the draft report soon.  The results of the flow modeling will provide the groundwork for our decision to pursue the order of work as outlined in our findings and orders or possibly pursue another avenue to include storage, pumping and treatment.

In addition to the aforementioned consulting work the county also authorized the development of bid specifications to do capital-intensive manhole remediation work on the balance of the collection system and lateral rehabilitation work, both public and private.    According to our consulting engineer’s technical services schedule, the county will be receiving the final product for the lateral remediation specifications by the end of the year. This would position the county to be ready to embark upon the bidding process in early 2007 as the next step of the lateral remediation process.

We have also addressed private property issues such as sump pumps, downspouts and area drains to reduce inflow of storm water into the sanitary sewer system. It is our belief that this work, in addition to the development of the aforementioned bid specifications, specifically the remediation of laterals, both public and private, are the first steps in the remediation work to be initiated prior to December 31, 2006.

In closing I wanted to readdress the matter of our belief that we have fulfilled the obligation, as stipulated in Section V. ORDERS, Part B.,“begin investigation and remediation of private property issues as soon as possible, but not later than December 31, 2006”, by our actions to date.  Upon receipt of this letter I would request that you contact me to further discuss.  We want to confirm that we have met our obligations as outlined in Section V. ORDERS, Part B.

Sincerely,

_________________________
Brad Niemeyer
Assistant Sanitary Engineer

RLB

cc:	Stephen M. Kayatin, P.E., Sanitary Engineer
File

/var/folders/7b/f2v92qqd2fb035dmxz1pb3wr0000gn/T/watermark-sidecars-00hhb48v/in/00010.doc
