204 N. Main Street, Suite 301, Lima, Ohio 45801Phone: 419-228-3700 ex.8866Fax: 419-229-3297Website: .allencountyohio.com/san/san.html

January 18, 2006

Mr. Stephen M. Kayatin, P.E.
Allen County Sanitary Engineer
204 North Main Street, Suite 301
Lima, Ohio 45801

RE:  Diesel Fuel Spill Summary

Dear Mr. Kayatin,

This correspondence is in regards to a recent incident that involved a semi tanker truck spill of diesel fuel at the corner of South Dixie and Breese Road.  This incident happened around 5:00 pm Friday evening, January 13, 2005.  The company involved was Earhart Petroleum Inc., 1494 Lytle Road, Troy, OH 45373, phone number 937-335-2928.  Mr. Robert Bolin in the contact.

At the time of the incident the department was not notified.  It was the following Tuesday, January 17, 2005 that Mr. Jeff Mathew and Mr. Wes Hites returned to work from the holiday weekend, and noticed a slight odor of some petroleum product around the plant.  Upon further investigation it was found to be most noticeable in the SBR tanks when the air induction cycle of the SBR process was activated.  Mr. Mathews investigated his grit chamber and found nothing present.  With the previous nights rain the system was full and there was no indication of any steady contamination entering the plant.

Mr. Mathews contacted me and informed me of the situation.  He indicated there was nothing coming into the plant and other than the occasional odor everything was running fine. I requested him to keep an eye on the incoming flow and let me know if anything changed with the situation.

Shortly thereafter Mr. Mathew called me back to inform me that he spotted something in his grit chamber that had a film to it.  I immediately contacted Mr. Horvath to request he dispatch one of his staff to investigate the collection system to see if the origin of the material could be located.  I was later notified that morning that it was traced back to the area of the tanker spill.

I contacted Russ Decker with the County EMA to find out what had happened, and he informed me that one of his staff, Dave Webb, was on site that evening when the tanker truck turned over.  I asked Mr. Decker about Mr. Webb’s report, and if it was noted anywhere as if our department was called.  I was informed that the report noted that the Ohio EPA was on site along with the Shawnee Fire Department, who was in charge.  Interdyne Corp., Lima, Ohio, was summoned to provide remediation services for the spill. As noted in the report the sewer system and storm sewer were investigated by the Ohio EPA and the Shawnee TWSP Fire Dept, and not found to have any of the contaminate present.  Mr. Decker provided me with Interdyne’s number and contact person as well the representative’s name and contact number from Ohio EPA.

I then contacted Mr. Dan Lukey, with Interdyne Corp., and asked him about the incident.  He informed me that by the time they arrived on site there was no liquid present, only contaminated soil.  As I understand the soil was excavated and removed from the site.  I informed Mr. Lukey of our concerns and requested he dispatch some of his people to investigate a couple of our pump station wet wells in the immediate area as well as the Shawnee II WWTP.  The odor detected at the plant was present at both pump stations.  Again, there was no noticeable contaminate.  As a closing note I requested Mr. Mathew to contact Mr. Tom Poffenbarger to provide a notice of our situation.

Lastly, I contacted Mr. Mike Gerber, Ohio EPA, and left a message with him to call me at his earliest convenience.

Interdyne returned to the plant Wednesday morning and installed an absorbent boom in the grit chamber to catch any contaminate entering the plant. In addition, they will continue to monitor this situation for the balance of the week and further if necessary.  They also had Alloway pull some samples from in influent structure, both SBR tanks, and the final tank.

Mr. Gerber returned my call Wednesday morning. He had also received a call from the County’s EMA office about our concerns.  I informed him of our concerns and let him know that we were not experiencing any problems with the plant.  I also informed him of the actions that were being taken.  Mr. Gerber informed me that Interdyne would be biologically treating the balance of the excavated area and stone area by the road to prevent any further excavation or contamination. He also provided the Incident number - #0601-02-0166.

I also received a follow-up phone call from Mr. Tom Poffenbarger this morning. I briefed him on the situation and informed him that we would keep him abreast of the situation.

Lastly, I spoke with Chief Tim Mouser, Shawnee TWSP Fire Dept. and inquired if they had tried to contact us.  He indicated that since no contamination was readily present they omitted to call us.  He also informed me that they are changing their call notification sheet to include us in the event of any future incidents.

That summarizes the matter to date.  I will keep you abreast of any new developments. Should you have any questions please contact me.

Sincerely,

__________________________
Richard L. Boerger
Department Operations Manager

RLB

Cc:	Mr. Brad Niemeyer, P.E., Assistant Sanitary Engineer
	Mr. Jeff Mathew, Plant Superintendent
