To:	Brian Benedict	From:	Greg Kemper
Company:	URS	Project:	Allen County Fort Amanda Pump Station
Date:	May 22, 2014	Pages:	1
Answer needed by:	ASAP	RFC No:	849-007
Drawing Reference:	SW-2, E-2	Spec. Section:	013113

 Request: Please answer the following questions regarding the electrical service for the site below:
1.  	Peterson Construction, Woolace Electric, AEP, and Buckeye Oil had an onsite coordination meeting regarding the temporary and permanent electrical service for the site today and determined that the proposed pole location provided on Sheet E-2 in the engineering plan set does seem too satisfy the restrictions provided by Buckeye Oil in the specifications.  Please see the attached sketch labeling the approximate proposed pole location given on Sheet E-2 as well as page 7 of 21 in the Buckeye Oil Attachment provided in Specification Section 02 3113 – Coordination.  The required minimum distance between any pole, guy wire, etc. for an overhead utility and a Buckeye Oil Pipeline is 25’-0”.  Due to existing site conditions AEP noted that a guy wire will be needed for the new service pole and it will be located on the north end of the new pole.  The current pole location in the documents seems to provide approximately 18’ from the pole to the nearest buckeye oil pipeline, excluding a guy wire.  Please refer to the proposed pole location discussed today between the parties listed above reflecting the minimum 25’-0” clear distance from the oil pipeline while still maintaining as much room between the proposed fence location to the north as possible.  Please confirm that this is an acceptable location.

2.	There are several documents that would be required by AEP prior to installation of this pole location because the pole will be located on private property and not in the public utility easement; due to the 25’ minimum required distance from the oil pipeline.  They will require a separate utility easement with AEP only for this pole.  Could you please provide the following information to AEP so they may begin the design for the new service:
			a.  (1) copy of the signed deed for the parcel that the pole is located on.
b.  A site plan, to scale, showing property lines and nearby monuments so a utility easement can be drafted by AEP.  This utility easement would need to be signed by the property owner.
c.  Temporary & Permanent Utility Orders must be placed with AEP prior to beginning the design process.  Peterson Construction placed the temporary order, please confirm that URS has placed the permanent utilities order as we discussed earlier over the phone.

Requested By:	Greg Kemper

	PROJECT MANAGER

CC:  GAK/RFI File

Answer:

    1. The revised pole location is acceptable
    2. A copy of the deed is attached. Note that the property is owned by the golf course. The Pump Station is being constructed in a permanent easement. You should be able to give AEP the PDF of SW-2 from the disc that you have. If this is not sufficient let me know. We have applied on-line for the permanent power for both sites.

CC:  GAK/RFI File/Field Office
Answered By:	Brian Benedict
	Date:	05/23/14
