To:	Brian Benedict	From:	Greg Kemper
Company:	URS	Project:	Allen County Fort Amanda Pump Station
Date:	May 20, 2014	Pages:	1
Answer needed by:	ASAP	RFC No:	849-002
Drawing Reference:	See Below	Spec. Section:	Multiple

 Request: Please respond to the following misc. questions:
    1. The rake overhang dimension shown in Section 2 on sheet S2-4 does not match that shown in Detail 1A on sheet A-4.  Please clarify.
    2. The overhead door material is called out to be galvanized steel in the Door Schedule on sheet A-2.  Spec 08 3323 appears to be calling for an aluminum door.  Which is correct?
    3. The drawings do not appear to call out any access hatch for the attic space above the precast plank ceiling.  Please confirm that this is correct.
    4. Item 3.3 Underlayment Installation in spec 074113 (Addendum #4) talks about installing felt and self-adhering sheet underlayment on roof sheathing under metal roofing.  Detail SSK-A1 in Addendum #4 appears to show the metal roof being installed directly on top of the metal deck.  This detail does not show any sheathing.  It would seem that sheathing would be necessary in order for the underlayment to function properly.  Should roof sheathing be added?  If so, please advise of a material type and thickness.
    5. Spec 07 8413 is for firestopping.  There are no rated partitions in this project.  Is this spec not applicable?
    6. Item 2.3.B.5 in spec 08 1616 calls for “prime coat for field painting” on the new FRP doors.  For durability/longevity, we propose to have the FRP doors/frames completely factory finish painted.  A color chart would be provided with the submittals for owner color selection.  Is this acceptable?
    7. Sheet P-4 shows 2-line aluminum handrail.  The “A” drawings show picket type handrail.  Please clarify.
    8. See the attached sheet P-3 for revisions that we propose to make to the process piping at no cost to the owner.  Are these acceptable?
    9. Sheet SW-2 appears to show the drain line for the southeast downspout heading north and connecting with the northeast downspout.  This routing is not possible because of the elevated concrete slab over the wetwell inlet area.  We propose to route the drain line from the southeast downspout due east and have it discharge directly into the wooded area at the bottom of the proposed slope.  We also propose to use SDR 35 PVC for all downspout drain lines.  Is this acceptable?

Requested By:	Greg Kemper

	PROJECT MANAGER

CC:  GAK/RFI File

Answer:

    1. The Architectural dimensions should be followed for the rake.
    2. The door should be supplied in aluminum.
    3. We will issue an RFP to install an access hatch
    4. A self-adhered underlayment should be used on the metal decking under the roof panels, adhered to the profile of the metal decking in such a way as not to be damaged during the installation of the roof panels.
    5. This spec is not applicable on this project
    6. No field painting is required. The doors should be supplied with an integral color.
    7. The picket type handrail should be supplied as shown on the “A drawings.
    8. This is acceptable.
    9. This is acceptable

CC:  GAK/RFI File/Field Office
Answered By:	J. Krinks/B. Benedict/S. Aditya
	Date:	05/21/14
