GENERAL CERTIFICATE

	The undersigned,   Clerk      of the Board County Commissioners, Allen County, Ohio, hereby certifies that:

I.	During the year 2010, the following were the Incumbents of the offices indicated below:

		Title		     Name

	Chief Executive Officer:	 President of the Board	                             Sam Bassitt

	Chief Fiscal Officer:	County Auditor	          Rhonda Eddy-Steineker

	Officer Responsible for Records:   	Clerk of the Board		            Kelli Singhaus

	Legislators: Vice President of the Board, W. Dan Reiff, Commissioner Greg Sneary

II.	The regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners of the Allen County are held each Wednesday.*

III.	Attached hereto are true and exact copies of the following, none of which legislation has been rescinded or repealed:

	(A)	Resolution  of the Board of Commissioners authorizing the County of Allen to enter into a Water Pollution Control Loan Fund Agreement with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency and the Ohio Water Development Authority, together with:

    1. 	Copy of minutes evidencing the passage thereof.

    2. 	Four (4) executed copies of the Water Pollution Control Loan Fund Agreement.

    3. 	The undersigned, Clerk of the legislative authority of the Board of Commissioners, Allen County, Ohio, hereby certifies that Resolution     No. 445-10 in the official record of the Board of  Commissioners has attached as Exhibit A the Water Pollution Control Loan Fund Agreement.

	(B)	Resolutions of the Board of Commissioners of the County of Allen authorizing rates and /or tap-in fees.

    1. 	Copy of minutes evidencing passage thereof.

    2. 	Copy of Amortization Schedule.

	(C)	If applicable, copies of pertinent Special Assessment Legislation.  NA

IV.	All meetings of the Board of County Commissioners, and of its committees and any other public bodies, at which the formal actions referred to in Section III above were taken, or at which deliberations that resulted in such formal actions were held, were open meetings, and such formal actions were taken and any such deliberations took place while such meetings were open to the public, in compliance with all legal requirements including Section 121.22, Revised Code.  All requirements and procedures for giving notice and notification of the aforementioned meetings, as set forth in said Section 121.22 and the rules of the   Board of County Commissioners in the implementation thereof, were complied with.

V.	The County of Allen has not adopted a charter under Article XVIII of the Ohio Constitution.  It has not adopted one of the optional plans of government provided for in Revised Code Chapter 705.

	Kelli Singhaus, Clerk of the Board
	(Signature and Title)

	(Date)
