OHIO WATER POLLUTION CONTROL LOAN FUND
	PROGRAM YEAR 2010 PROJECT NOMINATION FORM
	To be eligible for assistance, each project must be nominated and placed on the project priority list.  To nominate a project, complete this form and submit it as requested on page 4.  The information you provide below will determine the priority ranking of your project.  Incomplete forms will be returned and the project will not be placed on the project priority list until you have provided a complete nomination form.  Please direct any questions to Dave Reiff at (614) 644-3646.

	APPLICANT INFORMATION
Please provide the information below so we can contact you concerning your project.
	Community/Applicant
	Allen County Commissioners
	Project Name
	Shawnee II WWTP Trunk Sewer Design
	Applicant Address	County	Legislative Districts
	Address	C/O 3230 North Cole  Street	Allen	U.S. Congress:	4
				State Senate:	12
	City	Lima	OH	Zip	45801		State House:	4
	Contact Person Name	Contact Person Telephone
	Brad Niemeyer, Asst Sanitary Engineer 	419-996-4673
	Contact Person E-Mail Address	bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com

	DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT
Please provide a brief narrative description of the project and respond to the specific questions about the project included below.  Attach additional pages if necessary.

This project is the County’s next phase of SSO elimination for the Shawnee Sewer District.  This is a preliminary and final design project for the Ottawa River interceptor sewer and Fort Amanda pump station and force main.  The design will provide for the alignment of approximately 12,000 LF of 18” to 48” diameter gravity sewer and 6,500 LF of 24” diameter force main.  The design will determine the location of a 10,000 GPM pump station.  The flood plain study portion of the project will determine the alignment of proposed sewer upgrades as well as future WWTP expansion and renovation.
	Is this project a continuation of a previous WPCLF project?	X	No
			Yes (indicate project name below)

	What is the Federal NPDES (Discharge) Permit Number for the treatment plant associated with the project?	  2PK00002*HD

	Will this project help to achieve compliance or maintain compliance with the NPDES permit?	X	Achieve compliance with NPDES permit (attach explanation)
			Maintain compliance with NPDES permit (attach explanation)
			Neither
	Is this project the result of Ohio EPA Director’s Findings and Orders, a State of Ohio Consent Order, or a Federal Consent Decree?		No
		X	Yes
			No, but Orders are pending
	Is this project located in a Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) area or a Watershed  Action Plan area?		No
		X	Yes (indicated name below)
		Ottawa River
	Will the cost of the project will be paid for only by those users directly benefiting from the project?		Yes
		X	No
	The following data will help us determine the correct interest rate for your project.  Please provide a complete response.
		User Population served	Wastewater Volume conveyed/treated	Median Household Income
	For the area to be directly served by this project:	9,320	Avg. 2.0 MGD 	$57,786
	For the complete service area for the applicant:	18,625	Avg. 3.5MGD	$56,900
	WPCLF Program Year 2010 	Page 1 of 4

	ADDITIONAL PROJECT FEATURES
Some project features may enable you to qualify for a reduced interest rate on a construction loan.  Please check the appropriate choices for the potential interest rate discounts you want Ohio EPA to consider.
	Septage Receiving Facilities Construction		Water Resource Restoration Sponsor Program (WRRSP) project sponsor (indicate project name below)
	Conversion from Class B to Class A Sludge Production
	Municipal Water Conservation		I would like to be contacted as a potential WRRSP project sponsor for Program Year 2010

	TOTAL PROJECT COST
Please identify the estimated total project costs by category.  Please identify the total project cost, regardless of whether you are requesting a WPCLF loan for the total amount
		Planning	Design	Construction
	Wastewater Treatment Plant Construction or Improvements
	Existing Sewer Rehabilitation
	New Sewer Construction
	Sanitary Sewer Overflow Correction

$600,000

	Combined Sewer Overflow Correction
	Home Sewage Treatment Systems Improvements
	Phase I or Phase II Storm Water Improvements
	Agricultural - Cropland Best Management Practices
	Agricultural - Animal Best Management Practices
	Silviculture Best Management Practices
	Marinas/Waterways Best Management Practices
	Acid Mine Drainage Remediation
	Brownfield/Contaminated Site Remediation
Attach documentation demonstrating ownership of site to be remediated
	Leaking Storage Tanks Remediation
	Sanitary Landfill Closure
	Water Resource Restoration / Protection (do NOT include WRRSP)
	Totals		$600,000

	WPCLF LOAN TYPE AND REQUESTED AMOUNT
Please complete the appropriate box(es) below, indicating the amount and type of WPCLF funding being requested.  Planning and design costs can be funded as a separate loan, or included in the construction loan at commencement of construction.
		Estimated Loan Amount Requested
	Planning loan (up to 5 year repayment term)
	Design loan (up to 5 year repayment term)	$600,000
	Short term construction loan (up to 5 year repayment term)
	Long term planning loan (up to 20 year repayment term)
	Long term design loan (up to 20 year repayment term)
	Long term construction loan (up to 20 year repayment term)
	Total of Loan(s) Requested	$600,000

	OVERALL PROJECT FINANCING
So we can better work with you and coordinate with other funding agencies and their funding cycles, please answer the following questions to the best of your knowledge at this time.  Please check the appropriate choices.
	Will assessments will be used to finance all or part of the project?  (indicate Y or N)	N
	Other anticipated additional sources of financing?  	OPWC		CDBG		Other:  ____________________   	NA
	WPCLF Program Year  2010	Page 2 of 4

	PROJECT SCHEDULE
So that the WPCLF can assure that WPCLF funds will be available when you need them, please indicate the date you will complete each task for each type of loan being requested.  Please follow the minimum time intervals between each scheduled task.  Schedules with less than the minimum time intervals below may be rejected and returned for revisions.  Generally, once approved a project’s funds are available on the last Thursday of January through October, and the second Thursday of December.
NOTE:  if any of the following tasks have already been completed, please indicate this with a “C” and include the actual completion date.
	Planning Loan Schedule
	1.	Submit complete Loan Application, including engineering agreements and dedicated source of repayment information (no later than 60 days prior to task 3)
	2.	Sign loan documents and return to DEFA  (No later than 7 days prior to task 3)
	3.	We request a Planning Loan by (1st of Month in which Loan is Awarded)
	Design Loan Schedule
	1.	 Submit approvable Facilities Planning information, including complete I/I Analysis (no later than 120 days prior to task 4)	04/01/10
	2.	Submit complete Loan Application, including engineering agreements and dedicated source of repayment information (no later than 90 days prior to task 4)	05/01/10
	3.	Sign loan documents and return to DEFA no later than 7 days prior to task 4)	07/20/10
	4.	We request a Design Loan by (1st of Month in which Loan is Awarded)	08/01/10
	Construction Loan Schedule
	1.	Submit approvable Facilities Planning information, including complete I/I Analysis (no later than 200 days prior to task 9)
	2.	Submit complete Permit to Install application, including application, review fee, detail plans, contract documents, and specifications (no later than 170 days prior to task 9)
	3.	Submit community financial information, including User Charge System and Sewer Use ordinance (no later than 150 days prior to task 9)
	4.	Submit complete Loan Application, including engineering agreements and easement/land acquisition information (no later than 90 days prior to task 9)
	5.	Advertise for construction bids (no later than 60 days prior to task 9)
	6.	Open construction bids (no later than 30 days prior to task 9)
     Be sure to allow for a minimum of 60 days to award contracts
	7.	Submit bid information to DEFA no later than 21 days prior to task 9)
	8.	Sign loan documents and return to DEFA (no later than 7 days prior to task 9)
	9.	We request a Construction Loan by (1st of Month in which Loan is Awarded)
	WPCLF Program Year 2010	Page 3 of 4

	PROJECT PRIORITY RATING INFORMATION
To assure an accurate rating of your proposed project, provide documentation as described below that relates to the problems your project will address.  If no documentation is submitted, the project will be awarded a priority score of "zero" when added to the project priority list.
NOTE: Projects with a priority score of “zero” have a reduced guarantee of funding due to limited availability of funds.
	Project Benefit	Check below if applicable and attach requested data
	1.  Project Promotes Sustainable Growth
Attach a copy of the Sustainable Growth Plan that covers the project area and a description of how the project is consistent with the plan.
	2.	Project Addresses Disease Outbreak
Provide documentation from the local health department that demonstrates a correlation between the location of failing on-site systems, location of incidents of suspected waterborne disease, and dates of occurrences of reported illnesses.  Attach information showing how the project will eliminate the source of the waterborne disease.
	3.	Project Addresses a Human Health Risk - Fish Consumption
Identify the pollutant(s) of concern that will be addressed by the project.  Attach information indicating how the project will address this human health risk, the extent to which the pollutant will be reduced, and a map locating the project and the source(s) of pollution.
	4. 	Project Addresses a Human Health Risk – Bathing-Beach Contamination
Provide documentation of beach closings, indicating the dates and duration of closures within the past two years.  Attach information indicating how the project will address this human health risk through eliminating the bacterial source(s) particular to the project in question, and a map locating the project and the source(s) of pollution.
	5.	Project Addresses a Human Health Risk - Drinking Water Supply Contamination
Provide documentation from the drinking water supplier that shows that nitrate or pesticide advisories have been issued in the last two years.  Attach information indicating how the project will address this human health risk through bringing the water supply into compliance with its MCLs, and a map locating the project and the source(s) of pollution.
	6.	Project Addresses a Human Health Risk - Home Sewage Treatment System Failures
Provide documentation from the local health department which demonstrates a 30% or greater failure rate of septic systems in the project area, or bacterial sampling which shows a violation of water quality standards resulting from failing septic systems, or Director’s Findings and Orders from Ohio EPA to address failing HSTS.  Attach information indicating how the project will address this human health risk by eliminated the failing systems, and a map locating the project and the source(s) of pollution.  A letter from the local regulatory agency indicating that hook-ups will be enforced must be included in your submittal.
	7.	Project Addresses a Human Health Risk – Surface Water Bacteria Levels in Excess of WQS
Provide documentation that shows bacteria levels exceed water quality standards for water body.  Attach information that shows how the project will reduce bacteria levels to achieve water quality standards for the designated degree of human contact.
	8. Project Addresses a Human Health Risk - Sewage Backups Into Basements or Onto Streets or Properties
Provide documentation that demonstrates the presence of overflows in basements or streets or properties by completing the information on the attached Sewage Overflow Control Project Addendum.	X
	9.	Project Addresses a Human Health Risk - Dry Weather Overflows
Provide documentation on the attached Sewage Overflow Control Project Addendum that shows the nature of the overflows and how they will be eliminated by the proposed project.
	10. Project Addresses a Human Health Risk - Wet Weather Overflows
Provide documentation on the attached Sewage Overflow Control Project Addendum that shows the nature of the overflows and how they will be controlled or eliminated by the proposed project.	X
	11.	Project Benefits Ground Water
Attach a description of the project that includes an identification of the sources of pollution or threats that will be addressed by the project, whether the aquifer is used as a source of drinking water, sampling information on the sources if available, a map showing the location of the project, and a description of the extent to which the project will benefit ground water resources.
	12.	Project Benefits Wetlands
Attach descriptions of the wetland that will either be restored or preserved, including the wetland type and wetland function.  Provide a map that shows the location of the project and an Ohio Rapid Assessment score and worksheet.  For restoration, indicate the extent to which the project will restore the wetland.
	13.  Project Benefits Rivers, Streams, Inland Lakes, Lake Erie and the Ohio River
Attach descriptions of the source(s) of pollution or other sources of threats or impairments to surface water resources that will be addressed by the project, including a map showing locations of same and an indication of the extent to which the sources of impairments/threats will be addressed.  Please include the name of the water resource; if unnamed, please name the nearest downstream named resource.  Additionally, please identify the watershed or stream system within which the proposed action will be undertaken.	X
Ottawa River

	SUBMITTAL AUTHORIZATION
I hereby certify that I am authorized by my elected or appointed position to submit this nomination on behalf of the applicant identified above, that the information is complete and accurate to the best of my knowledge, and that it represents the information to be used to determine the priority of this project for funding.
	Brad Niemeyer 		 Assistant  Sanitary Engineer
	Name (please print)		Title

	Signature		Date
	PLEASE COMPLETE AND SEND WITH ALL ATTACHMENTS TO:
Ohio Environmental Protection Agency - Division of Environmental and Financial Assistance
PO Box 1049
Columbus, Ohio 43216-1049
ATTN.: Dave Reiff
FAX  (614) 460-8207
dave.reiff@epa.state.oh.us
	WPCLF Program Year  2010	Page 4 of 4

ADDENDUM to WPCLF NOMINATION FORM for
SEWAGE OVERFLOW CONTROL PROJECT
	Complete and submit this addendum if your project is intended to address public health or water quality impacts due to either dry or wet weather overflows from either sanitary sewers or combined sewers.  If no additional information is provided on how the project will address bacterial contamination under item 3, or  the benefits of the project to rivers, streams, inland lakes, Lake Erie or the Ohio River, as requested by item 10, or wetlands, as requested by item 11 of page 4 the nomination form, the answers to this questionnaire will be the sole means used to rank the overflow control project.  Alternatively, if information is provided which addresses either items 3, 10 or 11 of the nomination form, then the  project will be evaluated based on the provided water quality information as well as the data provided via this addendum, and will be awarded the highest score.  Only project types as described below will qualify for this alternative sewage overflow project scoring.  If no project-specific water quality information is provided, and if you do not complete all relevant sections and submit this addendum, the project will be awarded a priority score of “zero.”

	This project will:  (check as many as apply)
		X	Reduce or eliminate occurrences of sewage backups into buildings due to inadequate capacity of sewers to carry flows during wet weather conditions.  Complete Question #1.

			Eliminate dry weather overflows due to inadequate capacity of sewers to carry flows during dry weather conditions from either a sanitary sewer system or a combined sewer system.  Complete Question #2.

			Reduce or eliminate the volume or frequency of one or more wet weather overflows by constructing:
					separate sanitary sewers to replace combined sewers  Complete Question #3.

				X	additional storage of wet weather flow  Complete Question #3.
					How much additional storage will be provided?	To be determined through the design process

					additional treatment of combined sewer overflows (treatment must be at least advanced primary) Complete Question #3.
					What additional treatment technology will be provided?

					express sewers to route sanitary flow out of the combined sewer system directly to the WWTP Complete Question #3.

	Question #1 - Sewage Backups in Basements or onto Streets or Properties
	Number of basement or residential street or property backup events due to inadequate capacity of sewers that have occurred within the past two years:	3

	Number of expected backup events due to inadequate capacity of sewers after construction of this project is completed: (if greater than zero, attach an explanation, should achieve 50% or greater annual reduction in occurrences to be awarded these points)	0

	Question #2 - Dry Weather Overflows
	Number of dry weather overflows events due to inadequate capacity of sewers that have occurred within the past two years:	NA

	Location of dry weather overflows due to inadequate capacity of sewers (describe below):

	Question #3 - Wet Weather Overflows  (indicate only one overflow point per line - attach additional pages if necessary)
	Name / identification number of sewer overflow(s) impacted by the project		Has this overflow been active within the past two years?  (Yes/No)		Will this overflow be eliminated?  (Yes/No)		Stream to which the sewer overflow(s) discharges
	Cam Court                                   66		Yes		Yes		Ottawa River
	Elmview Drive                             30		Yes		Yes		Unnamed trib. to Ottawa River
	Riverview Drive                           81		Yes		Yes		Ottawa River
	Shawnee Country Club               94		Yes		Yes		Ottawa River
	Shawnee Country Club Main      45		Yes		Yes		Ottawa River
	Zurmehly Road                           83		Yes		Yes		Unnamed trib. to Ottawa River

	WPCLF Program Year 2010	Addendum Page 1 of 1
