From:	Brad Niemeyer [bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com]
Sent:	Tuesday, May 05, 2015 9:08 AM
To:	'Steve Kayatin'; 'Bill Horvath'
Subject:	RE: Stedke/Hume Supply Breese Road Site

Steve and Bill,

I, too, spoke with Bill Kelly (more than once) and Beth regarding the drilling slurry dump site.  One of 
the dikes were compromised and this led to the problem - sediment reaching the ditch/stream.  Once 
the dike was repaired, Bill Kelly and Beth were fine with the site and what it was being used for.

Not sure how Norm Capps got involved, but I believe Beth just wanted to give the Township a "heads 
up" of what was going on and then he started to raise the issue of the township being zoned such that 
no dumping of any kind is allowed.  Beth believes he is off base in his statements as far as this product 
is concerned.  A meeting with all parties involved may be necessary to educate Norm.

So with that in mind.....

1) Clearly they didn't speak with the township regarding the dumping.  S & S involved Bill Kelly from the 
beginning and felt they had the proper permissions.

2) I have asked Judd Gleason for more information regarding the material.

3) I spoke with Beth this morning and she stated she will be keeping an eye on the site nearly every 
day, but I will have Jim make his rounds as well.

Brad

From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, May 05, 2015 8:00 AM 
To: 'Brad Niemeyer'; 'Bill Horvath' 
Subject: FW: Stedke/Hume Supply Breese Road Site



From: Steve Kayatin [mailto:skayatin@allencountyohio.com]  
Sent: Tuesday, May 05, 2015 8:00 AM 
To: 'Beth Seibert' 
Subject: RE: Stedke/Hume Supply Breese Road Site

Bill and Brad

I received a call from Beth, Norm Capps and Bill Kelly on Friday about the subject issue. A 
number of issues come to mind on this issue:

1) Did S&S speak with township about dumping the drilling slurry on Stedke's property. 
Apparently Norm said the township has restrictions on dumping and S&S should have talked to 
the township prior to submitting their plan.
2) Norm has concerns about the material that is being dumped. A follow-up to Norm with detail 
of the material composition would be a good idea. Is there an MSDS sheet on the material or its 
constituents (bentonite)?
3) Beth and Bill were having issues with the material reaching the drainage ditch. We need to 
keep an eye the dump site. Maybe have Jim go to the site now and again and observe what S&S 
is doing.

Steve


From: Beth Seibert [mailto:beth@allenswcd.com]  
Sent: Monday, May 04, 2015 4:56 PM 
To: bkelly@allenhealthdept.org; bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com; Kayatin Steve 
Subject: Stedke/Hume Supply Breese Road Site

Bill, Brad and Steve-

After having talked with each of you last week, I just wanted to give you all an update on the illicit 
discharge issue at the Breese Rd clean hard fill site owned/operated by Daven Stedke.  I was out there 
this morning and it would appear that the illicit discharges I documented on Wed and Thursday last 
week have stopped.  Daven’s shift of the release of the sediment and water material to the north side 
of the property into a better diked area seems to be doing the trick.  The wet plateau from last week is 
drying up and does not appear that it will further mobilize.  I will continue to monitor the site over the 
next few weeks while this property continues to receive that water and sediment capture from the Ft 
Amanda Road trench excavation.

Beth Seibert
Stormwater and Watershed Programs Coordinator
Allen SWCD

 
 
This email has been checked for viruses by Avast antivirus 
software.  
www.avast.com 

