From:	Casey, Matthew [matthew.casey@aecom.com]
Sent:	Wednesday, January 27, 2016 10:09 AM
To:	Brad Niemeyer (bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com); Bill Horvath 
(bhorvath@allencountyohio.com)
Cc:	Steve Kayatin (skayatin@allencountyohio.com); Dickman, Nathan; 'John 
Leahy jr'
Subject:	Allen County FM - S&S Additional Time

Gentlemen,

Following up on our phone conversation yesterday regarding giving the contractor 6 weeks to complete 
the project.  The concern yesterday was by giving him additional time on the change order, we somehow 
admit that the contractor is justified in the new method and additional time, and Owner is responsible for 
these changes.  I have consulted with our claims expert, John Lamutt, and offer his response.

There is no way that you can effectively give the contractor a 6 week time extension, compensable or not, 
that will not imply (if not outright admit) that the Owner is taking responsibility for the differing site 
condition, changing the contract, and the resulting costs.  

The Owner is in a much stronger position if it has the leverage of the LDs to get the work completed and to 
offset any differing site condition claim that the contractor may have.  If you are going to have to fight this 
battle anyway (ie: the contractor will not do the work without the 6 weeks), maintain your position, put 
the contractor in default, and go get another contractor to put in this last 2,000 feet of pipe in the new 
location.  It should not cost you any more than you are willing to pay this contractor and you will get the 
system completed in a more timely manner.  

The Owner will not have given up any of its rights and its strong position to dispute the differing site 
condition claim.  The contractor, on the other hand, will have given up several hundred thousand dollars of 
work he could do and be paid for, is still exposed to continuing liquidated damage claim from the Owner 
and any additional cost above and beyond the original cost of the work, will be found in default of his 
contract, will have to deal with his bonding company, will have to report on future RFPs that he did not 
complete his previous projects satisfactory, and then decide if he wants to pursue a case that he is unlikely 
to win in court, and will have to report the litigation against the County in future RFPs.  The contractor is in 
a very weak position that will have long term impacts on his company if he does not accept your deal and 
the way out of this predicament.    

Please let me know if we need to set up a conference call to discuss.

Thanks.


 
Matthew Casey, PE 
Department Manager, Conveyance, Columbus 
D +1-614-600-5855 
M +1-614-572-8213 
matthew.casey@aecom.com 
 
AECOM 
277 West Nationwide Blvd. 
Columbus, Ohio, 43215, US 
T +1-614-464-4500 
aecom.com 
 
Built to deliver a better world 
 
LinkedIn  Twitter  Facebook  Instagram 

