From:	Casey, Matthew [matthew.casey@aecom.com]
Sent:	Monday, November 23, 2015 11:03 AM
To:	Dan Tipping; Dickman, Nathan; Brad Niemeyer; Steve Kayatin; 'Bill Horvath'; 
Tod Schlachter; Jay Gleason
Cc:	insp@allencountyohio.com
Subject:	RE: Allen County Force Main Project Meeting Record

Dan,
 
Please allow me to respond on Nathans behalf, as he is on vacation.
 
First of all, it is disconcerting that you feel the need to write this e-mail.  It was AECOM and Allen County’s 
opinion after the October 30, 2015 meeting that all parties in attendance appeared to be moving in the 
same direction in coming up with a solution that everyone would find acceptable.  This e-mail written by 
you, now puts this in question.
 
Your statement that facts are being overlooked, casually minimized or buried is simply not true.  Even 
though you have attended the last two meetings, AECOM nor the County has dealt much with you on this 
project, so we understand that you may not have all the facts.  If you and SSDB are going to make these 
accusations, then we request that you also provide supporting documentation.  Allen County and AECOM 
takes this project very seriously and if there are facts that you feel are being overlooked, minimized or 
buried, please present them to us so they can be handled in an appropriate manner.  Simply making 
statements without the facts is unprofessional and will not be tolerated.
 
We know that you are waiting on plans so that final pricing can be determined.  Currently we are waiting 
on field survey, then AECOM will prepare an alignment and update the bid form so that your company can 
establish firm unit price numbers.  The County cannot issue anything until these proper steps are taken.  
Once numbers are agreed upon a formal signed change order will be processed.   
 
Your paragraph regarding time extension due to weather needs to be clarified.  I recall an e-mail discussion 
between Nathan and Judd briefly discussing potential weather delays but I don’t recall any formal request.  
If there is a claim for a weather delay, it needs to be submitted in writing and it will be addressed.
 
I know the County as well as AECOM is eager to complete this project and once information can be 
forwarded to your firm, it will.  
 
If you have any questions please contact me or Nathan.
 
Sincerely,


 
Matthew Casey, PE 
Department Manager, Conveyance, Columbus 
D +1-614-600-5855 
M +1-614-572-8213 
matthew.casey@aecom.com 
 
AECOM 
277 West Nationdwide Blvd. 
Columbus, Ohio, 43215, US 
T +1-614-464-4500 
aecom.com 
 
Built to deliver a better world 
 
LinkedIn  Twitter  Facebook  Instagram 
From: Dan Tipping [mailto:dan@artcoatingtech.com]  
Sent: Thursday, November 19, 2015 2:18 PM 
To: Dickman, Nathan; Brad Niemeyer; Steve Kayatin; 'Bill Horvath'; Casey, Matthew; Tod Schlachter; 
Jay Gleason 
Cc: insp@allencountyohio.com 
Subject: RE: Allen County Force Main Project Meeting Record

Nathan,
Good Afternoon!
In regards to the minutes related to the meeting held on October 30, 2015  and  communications that were 
conducted previously, S&S Directional Boring, Ltd. believes that some important facts are being 
overlooked or casually minimized.
 S&S Directional Boring (SSDB),  finds the planned change as it relates to the  scope of work generally 
acceptable as presented and discussed during the meeting. However, we would have to reiterate and 
emphasize that we will need a signed, formal change order that is supported by engineered stamped 
drawings and any other supporting documentation before SSDB can begin with the construction of the 
proposed changes.  
In regards to the unit prices included in  item 6 of the meeting minutes, SSDB had previously conveyed the 
unit pricing to the engineer as an estimated cost, based on an estimated scope of work. At such time that 
we receive the signed formal change order,  stamped engineer drawings, and/or other contract 
documentation, we will re-visit our estimates.  
Another area of communication that may have been minimized, overlooked or quite frankly buried, is 
SSDB’s request for an extension of time due to weather delays and other Acts of God.   SSDB believes that 
these are to be excusable, non-compensable delays due to events that occurred beyond our control as 
allowed per section 0700 General Conditions, Article 12, section 12.03 of the contract documents.  To date 
we have received no response concerning this request.   
 In closing,  S&S Directional Boring stands ready, willing and able to perform the work.  However, we 
cannot perform any of the work until it is incorporated into the contract by properly executed contract 
documents. 
 
Sincerely, 
 Tod Schlachter, Member
Jay Gleason, Estimator/Project Manager
Dan Tipping, Controller


Best Regards,

Dan Tipping, CPA
Controller
Advanced Rehabilitation Technology, LTD
S&S Directional Boring, LTD
01116 County Road 17
Bryan, OH 43506
Office:  419-636-2684
Fax:      419-636-7437
Cell:     419-630-3715

 
Advanced Rehabilitation Technology, LTD - 2015 Ohio Chamber of Commerce 
Excellence In Entrepreneurship award winner.

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  This email and any attachments are for the exclusive and confidential use of the intended recipient.  If 
you are not the intended recipient, please do not read, distribute or take action in reliance upon this message. Any unauthorized 
use, review, dissemination, forwarding, copying or printing is strictly prohibited.   If you have received this in error, please notify us 
immediately by return email and promptly delete this message and its attachments from your computer system.  

From: Dickman, Nathan [mailto:nathan.dickman@aecom.com]  
Sent: Monday, November 2, 2015 3:00 PM 
To: Brad Niemeyer <bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com>; Steve Kayatin <skayatin@allencountyohio.com>; 
'Bill Horvath' <bhorvath@allencountyohio.com>; Casey, Matthew <matthew.casey@aecom.com>; Tod 
Schlachter <tod@ssdirectionalboring.com>; Jay Gleason <Jay@artcoatingtech.com>; Dan Tipping 
<dan@artcoatingtech.com> 
Cc: insp@allencountyohio.com 
Subject: Allen County Force Main Project Meeting Record

All- please find a record of last Friday’s meeting attached. Let me know if there are any additions or corrections.

Nathan Dickman, PE 
Project Engineer, Water Resources 
D 1-614-600-5854  C 1-419-305-9338
nathan.dickman@aecom.com 
 
AECOM
277 W Nationwide Blvd, Columbus, Ohio 43215  
T 1-614-464-4500 F 1-614-464-0588 
www.aecom.com

