From:	Casey, Matthew [matthew.casey@aecom.com]
Sent:	Friday, October 23, 2015 11:15 AM
To:	Tod Schlachter
Cc:	Brad Niemeyer (bniemeyer@allencountyohio.com); Bill Horvath 
(bhorvath@allencountyohio.com); Steve Kayatin 
(skayatin@allencountyohio.com); Dickman, Nathan
Subject:	Allen County FM

Tod,

Allen County has reviewed the alternatives and is anticipating moving forward with “open cutting” of the 
FM the entire length (the river crossing will still need to be HDD).  With that said, there are still some items 
to discuss such as alignment around the wetland, alignment behind the homes, etc.  We would like to meet 
with you next week to discuss them.  Are you available Wednesday, Thursday or Friday of next week?  

Prior to the meeting we are also requesting a schedule of how long you think it will take to get the FM into 
the ground (mobilization, clearing, installation, testing, etc).  You can finalize it after the meeting but we 
would like to have some idea on the amount of time required prior to when we meet.  We would also like 
to know if your company is planning to install the FM or if a subcontractor will do the work.  If it’s a sub, 
we will need to have project references.

Should you have any questions, please let me know.

Thanks

Matthew L. Casey, P.E.  
Department/Project Manager  
D 1-614-600-5855    C 1-614-572-8213 
matthew.casey@aecom.com  
 
AECOM
277 W. Nationwide Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43215 
T 1-614-464-4500 F 1-614-464-0588
www.aecom.com

This electronic communication, which includes any files or attachments thereto, contains proprietary or confidential information and may be 
privileged and otherwise protected under copyright or other applicable intellectual property laws. All information contained in this electronic 
communication is solely for the use of the individual(s) or entity to which it was addressed. If you are not the intended recipient(s), you are 
hereby notified that distributing, copying, or in any way disclosing any of the information in this e-mail is strictly prohibited. If you have received 
this e-mail in error, please notify the sender immediately, and destroy the communication and any files or attachments in their entirety, whether 
in electronic or hard copy format. Since data stored on electronic media can deteriorate, be translated or modified, AECOM, its subsidiaries, 
and/or affiliates will not be liable for the completeness, correctness or readability of the electronic data. The electronic data should be verified 
against the hard copy.

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail.



